.TH BMLIST 4ICD "File Formats"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
bmlist - basic mask list file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The basic mask list file "bmlist.gds" as used by
the programs \fIcgi\fP(1ICD) and \fIcig\fP(1ICD)
contains the mask names cross reference list for \fIgds2\fP.
\fIGds2\fP layer numbers, or
combinations of a \fIgds2\fP layer number and a
\fIgds2\fP data type, are related
to mask names as used in the \fImaskdata\fP(4ICD)
file for the process.
.PP
The basic mask list file "bmlist.cmk" as used by
the programs \fIcmsk\fP(1ICD) and \fIxcmk\fP(1ICD)
contains the mask names cross reference list
for \fIcmk\fP (CIRCUITMASK).
\fICmk\fP mask names are related
to mask names as used in the \fImaskdata\fP(4ICD)
file for the process.
.SH FORMAT GENERAL
The \fIbmlist\fP file contains one line for each mask.
Lines that start with a '#' character are treated as comment lines.
.SH FORMAT GDS
For "bmlist.gds", on each line that is not a comment line,
first the standard process mask name
and second the corresponding layer number for \fIgds2\fP are specified.
Optionally, the mask name is immediately followed (without space
characters) by a colon and the word term or label.
Also optionally, after the layer number,
a data type or text type number for \fIgds2\fP may be specified.
.PP
When \fIcgi\fP(1ICD) converts a \fIgds2\fP record to the project database,
it will first try to select a mask name in the "bmlist.gds" file
for which layer number and data type
match with the layer number and data type of the \fIgds2\fP record.
If such a mask cannot be found, it will try to select a mask name
for which the layer number matches with the layer number
of the \fIgds2\fP record and for which
no data type is specified.
When no data type is specified for the \fIgds2\fP record,
\fIcgi\fP(1ICD) will try to select a mask name that
has a corresponding layer number and that has no data type
specification.
.PP
In general, when more than one line matches with the \fIgds2\fP
record, the mask name of the first matching line will be used.
.PP
A mask name may immediately be followed
by a colon and the word term.
In this case the line specifies that text structures for the
specified layer number are mapped to terminals on the specified
mask.
The optional third value then specifies the text type that is required
for the text structure.
.PP
When a mask name is immediately followed
by a colon and the word label,
a text structure for the specified layer number
is mapped to a label on the specified mask.
Again, the optional third value then specifies the text type that
is required for the text structure.
.PP
Further, the following property names, followed by a number,
may be specified on a line in
the "bmlist.gds" file, to specify
the property numbers that are used for these properties
(see \fIcgi\fP(1ICD)):
prop_instance, prop_termlay, prop_term, prop_labellay, prop_label.
.PP
When \fIcig\fP(1ICD) converts a layout polygon from the
project database to a \fIgds2\fP record, it will use
the layer number and optional data type that are specified
on the first line in the file "bmlist.gds" that contains
the mask name of the polygon.
In a similar way, terminals and labels
are converted to \fIgds2\fP text records with
a layer number and optional text type that are specified
on the first line in the file that contains the mask name
followed by a colon and respectively the word term or the
word label.
If the latter information is not available, terminals
and labels are included in the output as a boundary element
with a property attached to it (see \fIcgi\fP(1ICD)).
.SH FORMAT CMK
For "bmlist.cmk", on each line that is not a comment line,
first the mask name for
.I cmk
and second the corresponding standard process mask name are specified.
Mask names of the used process which are not specified
are automatically mapped to there own name.
Thus,
an empty mask list means that the mask names of the used process are used
as \fIcmk\fP mask names.
In "bmlist.cmk"
each mask name (\fIcmk\fP or standard process)
can be mapped only once to one other mask name.
.SH EXAMPLE
As an example,
here is the \fIbmlist.gds\fP
file for an example N-well cmos process:

.nf
.ta 1.0i
# scmos_n - N-well cmos example process
cpg         46
caa         43
cmf         49
cmf:term    49
cms         51
cms:term    51
cca         48
ccp         47
cva         50
cwn         42
csn         45
cog         52
cx          0
.fi

Here is different version of the \fIbmlist.gds\fP
file for the same process.
In this example, all interconnect masks have the
same gds layer number but different data types
or text types.
In addition, labels on "cms" are specified with text
structures with layer number 46 and text type 4.

.nf
# scmos_n - N-well cmos example process
cpg         46   1
caa         43
cmf         46   2
cmf:term    46   2
cms         46   3
cms:term    46   3
cms:label   46   4
cca         48
ccp         47
cva         50
cwn         42
csn         45
cog         52
cx          0
.fi

As another example, here is the \fIbmlist.cmk\fP
file for an nmos process:

.nf
cb    ng
co    nc
cs    nb
di    ni
in    nm
od    nd
ps    np
xb    nx
.fi

At each line we see first the mask name for \fIcmk\fP
and second the standard process mask name.
.AU "S. de Graaf, A.J. van Genderen"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/bmlist.gds\fP
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/bmlist.cmk\fP
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/maskdata\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
Circuitmask User Manual, Philips, August 1978.
.br
cgi(1ICD),
cig(1ICD),
cmsk(1ICD),
getproc(1ICD),
maskdata(4ICD),
xcmk(1ICD).
