.TH BOOLDATA 4ICD "File Formats"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
booldata - technology description for the program nbool
.SH DESCRIPTION
The description of the combination of masks that must
be made by the program
.I nbool
(1ICD)
(part of the design_rule checker
.I dimcheck
(1ICD)) is done in
the technology file
.I booldata.
The format of this file is illustrated by the following example.
.br
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
od_vln nw_vln sp_vln ps_vln con_vln cop_vln
cps_vln cb_vln in_vln sn_vln : filenames
od_vln&!nw_vln               : 0  OD.3.1
od_vln&nw_vln                : 1  OD.4.1.1
od_vln&sp_vln&!nw_vln        : 2  OD.3.2+SP/SN.3.3+4.3
od_vln&ps_vln                : 3  PS.3.1+PS.5.1
sp_vln|sn_vln                : 4  SP.3.1+SN.3.1
od_vln&ps_vln&nw_vln         : 5  SP.3.2+SP.4.2
od_vln&!ps_vln               : 6  OD.2.1
od_vln&con_vln&!nw_vln|
od_vln&cop_vln&nw_vln|od_vln&ps_vln : 7  SP/SN.3.3+4.3
od_vln&sn_vln&nw_vln         : 8  SP/SN.3.3+4.3
od_vln&ps_vln&!nw_vln        : 9  SN.3.2+SN.4.2
od_vln&con_vln               : 12 CON.3.1+CON.3.2
od_vln&con_vln&sn_vln&nw_vln : 13 CON.3.3+CON.3.4
od_vln&cop_vln               : 14 COP.3.1+COP.3.2
od_vln&sp_vln&cop_vln&!nw_vln : 15 COP.3.3+COP.3.4
od_vln&ps_vln&cps_vln        : 16 CPS.4.1
cps_vln&ps_vln               : 17 CPS.4.2+CPS.4.3
con_vln&!in_vln|cop_vln&!in_vln|
cps_vln&!in_vln              : 18 IN.3.1
con_vln&in_vln|cop_vln&in_vln|
cps_vln&in_vln               : 19 IN.3.2
cb_vln&in_vln                : 20 CB.1.1
.fi
.PP
The first lines of the file until the first ':' contain the names of the
input files that are involved in the formulas to come.
After that each line(s) of the file until the ':'
contains the logical formula to make.
In this formula the logical AND operation is indicated by the
character '&', the logical OR operation by '|' and
the negation operation by the character '!'.
The precedence of the operators is !, &, |.
The end of the formula is indicated by the ':' on the line.
After this ':' a number is given indicating the name of
the file where the result has to be stored.
The name of the file becomes bool_nn,
where nn is the number just mentioned.
After this number a string is given indicating what
design rule is involved in the operation.
.AU "J. Liedorp"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess_name\fR/booldata\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
T.G.R. van Leuken, J. Liedorp "An Hierarchical
and Technology Independent Design Rule Checker", Delft University
of Technology,
.br
autocheck(1ICD), dimcheck(1ICD), nbool(1ICD),
dimdata(4ICD)
