.TH CELL.RES 4ICD "File Formats"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
\fIcell\fP.res - file for descriptions of logic signals
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file \fIcell\fP.res contains descriptions of logic signals
as a function of time.
Programs that write this file are for example
.I sls
and
.I simeye.
Programs that read this file are for example
.I sls
and
.I simeye.
.SH FORMAT
First the scale factor for the time values is printed.
Each time value in the file
has to be multiplied with this factor in order to obtain
the real time value.
.PP
Next, on the same line, the signals names are printed.
Each signal is enclosed between parentheses.
E.g. ( signame ).
When a signal
name has an array specification, the name is
preceded by a left parenthesis and closed by a right parenthesis,
while the array specification directly follows the signal name.
For example:
.sp
.nf
( (in (0 6)) )     denoting  in[0..6]
( (out 5 (0 7)) )  denoting  out[5,0..7]
.fi
.sp
When a signal name is preceded
by one or more instance names,
the instance names are printed in the same format
and precede the signal name.
.sp
E.g.
.nf
( (adder 3) in )  denoting  adder[3].in
.fi
.sp
The end of the list of signal names is denoted by an end of line
character.
Furthermore, in this part of the file
space characters are optional between all tokens,
while they should always be present
after a signal name and between
two integers.
.PP
Next, the signal values are listed.
For the different time values on which signals
change, the values of all signals
are given.
Each such a specification
occurs on one line, which has a fixed length.
First 15 character positions are reserved for
printing the time value.
The time value should be an integer value
and it should be printed right adjusted.
Space characters should be used to precede the integer value
and to complete the 15 character positions.
Directly following the time value,
the signal values are printed with values 'h' for I, 'l'
for O, 'x' for undefined, and '.' for previous value.
No spaces should separate these items and they
should be followed by an end of line character.
.PP
Between two different signal value specifications,
the signal is assumed to have
the value that was given with the signal specification
with the smallest time.
The first signal value specification should be for t=0
and there may be more than one value specification for the same
time.
The signal descriptions are valid until
the time of the last value specification.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following .res file is the result of an sls
simulation at level 1.
.nf

1.000000e+000  ( vdd ) ( vss ) ( phi1 ) ( phi2 ) ( in ) ( out )
              0hlhlhx
              1hllhhh
              2hlhlhh
              3hllhhh
              4hlhllh
              5hllhll
              6hlhlll
              7hllhll
              8hlhlhl
              9hllhhh
             10hlhlhh
.fi
The corresponding .out file is listed below.
.nf
.L{

======================================================
                         S L S
                      version: 3.0
          S I M U L A T I O N   R E S U L T S
======================================================
 time         | v v p p i o
 in 1e+00 sec | d s h h n u
              | d s i i   t
              |     1 2
======================================================
            0 | 1 0 1 0 1 x
            1 | 1 0 0 1 1 1
            2 | 1 0 1 0 1 1
            3 | 1 0 0 1 1 1
            4 | 1 0 1 0 0 1
            5 | 1 0 0 1 0 0
            6 | 1 0 1 0 0 0
            7 | 1 0 0 1 0 0
            8 | 1 0 1 0 1 0
            9 | 1 0 0 1 1 1
           10 | 1 0 1 0 1 1
======================================================
  network : latch                         nodes : 10
======================================================

.L}
.fi
The second .res file is the result of an sls
simulation at level 3.
.nf
.L{

1.000000e-011  ( phi1 ) ( phi2 ) ( in ) ( out ) ( (inv (1 3)) o )
              0hlhxlhx
           1000lhhxlhx
           1167lhhhlhh
           2000hlhhlhh
           3000lhhhlhh
           4000hllhlhh
           4313hllhhhh
           4357hllhhlh
           5000lhlhhlh
           5274lhllhll
           6000hlllhll
           7000lhllhll
           8000hlhlhll
           8078hlhllll
           8245hlhllhl
           9000lhhllhl
           9167lhhhlhh
          10000hlhhlhh

.L}
.fi
The .out file that belongs to it is given below.
.nf
.L{

======================================================
                         S L S
                      version: 3.0
          S I M U L A T I O N   R E S U L T S
======================================================
 time         | p p i o i i i
 in 1e-09 sec | h h n u n n n
              | i i   t v v v
              | 1 2     * * *
              |         1 2 3
              |         * * *
              |         . . .
              |         o o o
======================================================
         0.00 | 1 0 1 x 0 1 x
        10.00 | 0 1 1 x 0 1 x
        11.67 | 0 1 1 1 0 1 1
        20.00 | 1 0 1 1 0 1 1
        30.00 | 0 1 1 1 0 1 1
        40.00 | 1 0 0 1 0 1 1
        43.13 | 1 0 0 1 1 1 1
        43.57 | 1 0 0 1 1 0 1
        50.00 | 0 1 0 1 1 0 1
        52.74 | 0 1 0 0 1 0 0
        60.00 | 1 0 0 0 1 0 0
        70.00 | 0 1 0 0 1 0 0
        80.00 | 1 0 1 0 1 0 0
        80.78 | 1 0 1 0 0 0 0
        82.45 | 1 0 1 0 0 1 0
        90.00 | 0 1 1 0 0 1 0
        91.67 | 0 1 1 1 0 1 1
       100.00 | 1 0 1 1 0 1 1
======================================================
  network : latch                         nodes : 10
======================================================

.L}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
sls(1ICD), simeye(1ICD).
