.TH DALI_DRC 4ICD "File Formats"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dali_drc - design rule file for the layout editor dali
.SH DESCRIPTION
The layout editor \fIdali\fP (1ICD) offers an internal design rule check
facility to perform single layer checks on the mask-layout being edited.
The rules that are used by this facility are retrieved
from the \fIdali_drc\fP file of the process that corresponds to the project
of the mask-layout being edited.
For a certain process this file specifies per mask the minimal width and gap
spacings that the mask geometries should obey.
.SH FORMAT
The \fIdali_drc\fP file contains (zero or) one line for each mask,
as well as optional comment lines.
The order in which the lines appear is not of interest.
If a mask-line is missing, no check is performed for that specific mask.
Comment lines start with a '#' character.
.PP
Each non-comment line contains five fields.
The first field of a line specifies the mask for which the rules
are defined in that line.
The mask is specified by its mask number (see also \fImaskdata\fP (4ICD)
The second field specifies the minimal width (in lambdas)
allowed for the mask geometries.
The rule that is applied by dali for gap-checks depends on the length
of the opposing edges for which a gap check is performed.
The third field specifies the minimal gap allowed if both edges are
longer than a given critical length.
The fourth field specifies the minimal gap allowed if either one of
the edges is shorter than or equal to this critical length.
The critical length is specified in the fifth field.
.SH EXAMPLE
As an example, here is the
.I dali_drc
file for a standard 4u nmos process:
.PP
.L{
.nf
# Dali design rule file for the standard 4u nmos
# process.
# mask  width   gap     sh_gap  crit_length
0       2       2       2       5
1       2       2       2       5
2       3       2       1       5
3       2       0       0       5
4       2       0       0       5
5       2       0       0       5
6       2       0       0       5
7       2       0       0       5
.fi
.L}
.PP
For example, we see that for all masks (except mask 2) a minimal width of 2
lambda is required.
For mask 2
(mask name 'nm', see also \fIgetproc\fP (1ICD) and \fImaskdata\fP (4ICD)
a minimal width of 3 is required.
Also, for mask 2
a minimal gap of 1 is allowed if the length of one of the edges is
smaller than or equal to 5.
For the masks 0 and 1 no distinction is made for gap checks.
No gap constraints are provided for the masks 3 - 7.
The critical length specification is therefore of no interest for masks 3 - 7,
just as for the masks 0 and 1.
.AU "P. van der Wolf"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/TECHN/dali_drc\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
P. van der Wolf and J. Liedorp,
"Dali User's Manual",
Delft University of Technology,
Dimes Design and Test Centre.
.br
dali(1ICD), getproc(1ICD), maskdata(4ICD)
