.TH DIMDATA 4ICD "File Formats"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dimdata - technology description for the program dimcheck
.SH DESCRIPTION
For the description of the design rules that are checked
by the program
.I dimcheck
the technology files
.I dimcheckdata1
and
.I dimcheckdata2
are used.
If dimcheck is used in the check program
.I autocheck
(1ICD)
it uses the file
.I dimcheckdata1;
if it is used in the check program
.I dimcheck
(1ICD),
it uses
.I dimcheckdata2.
.PP
The format of the files is illustrated by the following example.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.L{
.nf
nw_vln  NOFILE  12 15   0  0  0  NW.1.1+NW.2.1
od_vln  NOFILE   6  9   0  0  2  OD.1.1+OD.1.2
ps_vln  NOFILE   6  6   0  0  2  PS.1+PS.2.1
sp_vln  NOFILE  12 12   0  0  0  SP.1.1+SP.2.1
sn_vln  NOFILE  12 12   0  0  0  SN.1.1+SN.2.1
con_vln NOFILE   6  6  -1  6  2  CON.1.1+CON.2.1
cop_vln NOFILE   6  6  -1  6  2  COP.1.1+COP.2.1
cps_vln NOFILE   6  6  -1  6  2  CPS.1.1+CPS.2.1
in_vln  NOFILE   7  7   0  0  2  IN.1.1+IN.2.1
cb_vln  NOFILE 300 160  0  0  2  CB.3.1+CB.4.1
.fi
.L}
.PP
Each line of one of these files must contain
the following items in the order given:
.if n .in +4
.if t .in +0.3i
.br

The name of the file to be checked.
.br

Optionally the name of an help_layer; if not needed 'NOFILE'
is coded here.
If a layer is specified  gap errors will only be reported
in places where this layer is not present,
and width errors will only be reported where this
layer is present.
.br

The minimum width of elements on the file.
If it is zero no check will be carried out.
If a value of -1 is given here, an error will
be reported, when an item in the layer
given is found.
.br

The minimum gap between two elements on the file.
If it is zero no check will be carried out.
.br

The minimum gap between elements on the file for short
lengths of the gap.
.br
If a negative value is given here the program dimcheck
will interpret it as an maximum width check,
with the maximum value for the width given in the
next item.
.br

The maximum length of the gap for which the reduced
gap may be applied,
or if the previous item is negative the maximum value
of the width permitted.
.br

The value for kind. This variable may have one of the
following values:
.if n .in +4
.if t .in +0.3i
.br

0: gap_errors between edges of the same polygon
and errors stemming from touching corners will not be
reported.
.br

1: errors stemming from touching corners will not be
reported, but gap_errors between edges of the same polygon
will be reported.
.br

2: gap_errors between edges of the same polygon will not be
reported, but errors stemming from touching corners will be.
.br

3: gap_errors between edges of the same polygon will be
reported as well as errors stemming from touching corners.
.br

.if n .in -4
.if t .in -0.3i
A string indicating the design rule(s) involved.
.br

Optionally a comment string may be added to each line.
.if n .in -4
.if t .in -0.3i
.br

In this example only primary vln files are used.
However one may also use vln files made by nbool,
so files bool_nn.
.br
.AU "J. Liedorp"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess_name\fR/dimcheckdata1\fP
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess_name\fR/dimcheckdata2\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
T.G.R. van Leuken, J. Liedorp "An Hierarchical
and Technology Independent Design Rule Checker", Delft University
of Technology,
.br
autocheck(1ICD), dimcheck(1ICD),
booldata(4ICD)

