.TH DUBDATA 4ICD "File Formats"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dubdata - technology description for the program dubcheck
.SH DESCRIPTION
For the description of the design rules that are checked
by the program
.I dubcheck
the technology file
.I dubcheckdata
is used.
For each technology used a file
.I dubcheckdata
must be present in the corresponding process directory.
The format of this file is illustrated by the following example.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.L{
.nf
bool_0  nw_vln   NOFILE   0 20  0  0  0  OD\&.3\&.1
bool_2  nw_vln   NOFILE   0 20  0  0  0  OD\&.3\&.2
bool_1  nw_vln   NOFILE  10  0  0  0  0  OD\&.4\&.1\&.1
bool_3  ps_vln   od_vln   5  0  0  0  2  PS\&.3\&.1
od_vln  ps_vln   NOFILE   0  3  0  0  0  PS\&.4\&.1
bool_3  od_vln   ps_vln   6  0  0  0  2  PS\&.5\&.1
bool_1  bool_4   NOFILE   6  0  0  0  0  SP\&.3\&.1
bool_5  sp_vln   NOFILE   6  0  0  0  1  SP\&.3\&.2
bool_8  bool_7   od_vln   0  0  0  0  4  SP\&.3\&.3+SN\&.4\&.3
bool_8  bool_7   od_vln   0  0  0  0  5  SP\&.3\&.3+SN\&.4\&.3
bool_8  bool_6   NOFILE  12  0  0  0  3  SP\&.3\&.3+SN\&.4\&.3
od_vln  sp_vln   NOFILE   0  6  0  0  1  SP\&.4\&.1
sp_vln  bool_5   NOFILE   0  6  0  0  0  SP\&.4\&.2
bool_0  bool_4   NOFILE   6  0  0  0  0  SN\&.3\&.1
bool_9  sn_vln   NOFILE   6  0  0  0  0  SN\&.3\&.2
bool_2  bool_7   od_vln   0  0  0  0  4  SN\&.3\&.3+SP\&.4\&.3
bool_2  bool_7   od_vln   0  0  0  0  5  SN\&.3\&.3+SP\&.4\&.3
bool_2  bool_6   NOFILE  12  0  0  0  3  SN\&.3\&.3+SP\&.4\&.3
od_vln  sn_vln   NOFILE   0  6  0  0  1  SN\&.4\&.1
od_vln  bool_9   NOFILE   0  6  0  0  0  SN\&.4\&.2
bool_12 od_vln   NOFILE   5  0  0  0  0  CON\&.3\&.1
bool_12 ps_vln   NOFILE   0  5  0  0  0  CON\&.3\&.2
bool_13 sn_vln   NOFILE   3  0  0  0  0  CON\&.3\&.3
sp_vln  bool_13  NOFILE   0  3  0  0  0  CON\&.3\&.4
bool_14 od_vln   NOFILE   5  0  0  0  0  COP\&.3\&.1
bool_14 ps_vln   NOFILE   0  5  0  0  0  COP\&.3\&.2
bool_15 sp_vln   NOFILE   3  0  0  0  0  COP\&.3\&.3
sn_vln  bool_15  NOFILE   0  3  0  0  0  COP\&.3\&.4
bool_17 ps_vln   NOFILE   4  0  0  0  0  CPS\&.4\&.2
bool_17 od_vln   NOFILE   0  5  0  0  0  CPS\&.4\&.3
bool_19 in_vln   NOFILE   3  0  0  0  0  IN\&.3\&.2
bool_20 in_vln   NOFILE  10  0  0  0  0  CB\&.1\&.1
.fi
.L}
.PP
Each line of this file must contain the following items in the order given:
.if n .in +4
.if t .in +0.3i
.br

The first file involved with the operation.
In case of an overlap check this is the file of which
the elements have to be overlapped.
.br

The second file involved with the operation.
In case of an overlap check this is the file of which the elements have
to overlap the elements of the first file.
.br

A helpfile involved in the operation.
This file is used for checks with a certain kind.
If not needed, 'NOFILE" is coded.
.br

The overlap the second file must have over the first file.
If it is zero, no overlap check will be carried out.
.br

The minimal gap between non overlapping elements of the
first and second file.
If it is zero no check will be carried out.
.br

The minimal gap that must be maintained if the length of
the gap is only small.
.br

The maximum gaplength for which the reduced gap value may be
applied.
.br

The value of the variable kind.
.br
For gap checks the value of kind means:
.if n .in +4
.if t .in +0.3i
.br

0: do not suppress gap errors of overlapping items.
.br

1: suppress gap errors of overlapping items.
.if n .in -4
.if t .in -0.3i
.br

For overlap checks the value of kind means:
.if n .in +4
.if t .in +0.3i
.br

0: check for a total overlap.
.br

1: check for overlap over two opposite sides.
.br

2: only check the overlap for places where the helplay has
no overlap with the layer that has to be overlapped.
.br

3: check only at the sides indicated by the conn_dir array.
This array will be filled using checks with kind = 4 and kind = 5.
.br

4: sets the conn_dir array to 'check bottom and top overlap' if
in the same polygon of the helplayer
there is one area of the second layer present  to the left
and one to the right of an area of the first layer.
.br

5: sets the conn_dir array to 'check left and right overlap' if
in the same polygon of the helplayer
there is one area of the second layer present  to the bottom
and one to the top of an area of the first layer.
.br

6: only check the overlap for places where the helplay has
no overlap with the layer that has to be overlapped, and
the edges of this layer and the edges of the helplay
do not coincide.
.if n .in -4
.if t .in -0.3i
.br

A string indicating which design rules are involved.
.br

Optionally a comment_string may be added to each line.
.if n .in -4
.if t .in -0.3i
.br

.AU "J. Liedorp"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess_name\fR/dubcheckdata\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
T.G.R. van Leuken, J. Liedorp "An Hierarchical
and Technology Independent Design Rule Checker", Delft University
of Technology,
.br
autocheck(1ICD), dimcheck(1ICD),
booldata(4ICD)

