.TH MATCH_PRIM 4ICD "File Formats"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
match_prim - standard primitive element file for match
.SH DESCRIPTION
Before
.I match
(1ICD)
starts comparing both the nominal and actual networks, the
.I "standard primitive element file"
is read.
This file contains the descriptions of the primitive network
elements.
Each primitive network element contains  a description of the allowed
permutations on its ports.
The permutability description consists of a list of the permutation
classes enclosed by parentheses.
Each permutation class is a list of ports.
All ports which are members of the same permutation class are fully
interchangeable.
Individual ports are not permutable.
.SH EXAMPLE
As an example, the standard primitive element descriptions are given below.
.PP
.L{
.nf
Primitive network nenh ( terminal g, d, s )
{
    perm { (g), (d,s) };
}

Primitive network penh ( terminal g, d, s )
{
    perm { (g), (d,s) };
}

Primitive network ndep ( terminal g, d, s )
{
    perm { (g), (d,s) };
}

Primitive network res ( terminal a, b )
{
    perm { (a, b) };
}

Primitive network cap ( terminal a, b )
{
    perm { (a, b) };
}
.fi
.L}
.PP
.AU "T. Vogel, I. Widya"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIpr_name\fP/match_prim\fP
(standard primitive element file)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
match (1ICD), matchprim (1ICD)
.br
T. Vogel, "Connectivity Verification based on Netlist
Comparison", Delft University of Technology.
.br
A.C. de Graaf, A.J. van Genderen, "SLS: Switch-Level
Simulator Users Manual", Delft University of Technology.
