.ll 77
.hy
.TH SEADIF 4SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.SH NAME
seadif - language for sea-of-gates data representation
.SH DESCRIPTION
Seadif is a language that is specially suited for data representation in a
sea-of-gates database. It essentially is a subset of the Edif (Electronic Design
Interchange Format) language version 2.0.0, but it has a number of enhancements.
These enhancements mainly deal with convenient layout representation and with
a so called "meta hierarchy". The meta hierarchy consists of four levels. At the
top are the
.I libraries,
at the second level are the
.I functions,
at the third level are the
.I circuits
and at the lowest level are the
.I layouts.
The main objective of the meta hierarchy is to provide a selection mechanism:
each function lists a number of functional equivalent circuits and each
circuit list a number of net-equivalent layouts.
.PP
The Seadif language is an "open" language. It can be extended while remaining
compatibility with the older version. The seadif I/O library
.I sealib (3SDF)
skips unknown language elements and processes only the elements that it
recognizes.
The following five subsections discuss the Seadif statements currently defined
and recognized by the Seadif I/O functions mentioned in
.I sealib (3SDF).
Meaning of the --rather informal-- syntax used below to describe the syntax of
the Seadif language is as follows.
.PP
  <statement>   is a statement or a terminal symbol like
                a <string> or a <number>, see below;
  <statement>?  means zero or one time <statement>;
  <statement>*  means zero, one or more times <statement>;
  <aa> | <bb>   means either <aa> or <bb>, not both;
  { <aa> <bb> } groups two statements <aa> and <bb> to
                syntacticly form a single statement.
.PP
All other symbols represent themselves. Spaces, tabs and newlines are all
equivalent. Left and right parenthesis do not need surrounding spaces in order
to be recognized, but other language element need either spaces or parenthesis
surrounding them.  For most statements the order in which they appear is
unimportant. This, however, is not true for arguments of the LaySlice statement
(see below).  It also is not true for terminal symbols of type <string> and
type <number>.
.PP
Terminal symbols of type <number> can be octal, decimal or hex and the format
corresponds to the C-syntax, that is, leading '0' for octal and leading '0x'
for hex. For instance, 023 = 19 = 0x13. Terminal symbols of type <string>
should be quoted with double-quotes (") and they may contain any character
except double-quote. Strictly alphanumeric strings do not require quotes but
they do require a leading percent (%) if the first position is numeric. For
instance, "2towers" is equivalent to %2towers.  (This is all very messy but it
comes with tradition...)
.PP
The following terminal symbols are <strings>s: <libraryname>, <functionname>,
<circuitname>, <cirportname>, <cirinstname>, <layinstname>, <netname>,
<busname>, <attributestring> and <layoutname>.
.PP
The following terminal symbols are <number>s: <layernumber>, <xposition>,
<yposition>, <xlength>, <ylength>, <xoffset>, <yoffset>, <mtx0>, <mtx1>,
<mtx2>, <mtx3>, <mtx4>, <mtx5>, <xleft>, <xright>, <ybottom> and <ytop>.
.PP
.I "SEADIF"
.br
The Seadif statement is the root of the meta hierarchy. It serves no other
purpose than grouping a set of libraries and image descriptions. Synopsis:

    <Seadif> ::= (Seadif <string>
                     <Status>?
                     <SeadifImage>*
                     <Library>* )
.PP
For a description of <SeadifImage> refer to
.I sdfimage (4SDF).
The <Status>, <SeadifImage> and <Library> statements may occur in any order.
.PP
.I "LIBRARY"
.br
A library groups a set of related functions that are available in a certain
technology. Synopsis:

    <Library> ::= (Library <libraryname>
                      <Technology>?
                      <Status>?
                      <Function>* )

    <Technology> ::= (Technology <string> )
.PP
The <Technology>, <Status> and <Function> statements may occur in any order.
.PP
.I "FUNCTION"
.br
A function groups a set of functional equivalent circuits.
Synopsis:

    <Function> ::= (Function <functionname>
                       <FunSimulate>?
                       <FunType>?
                       <Status>?
                       <Circuit>* )

    <FunType> ::= (FunType <string> )

    <FunSimulate> ::= (FunSimulate <string> )
.PP
Normally, FunSimulate refers to a procedure that simulates the behavior of the
function. FunType provides additional information for logic synthesis.  The
<FunSimulate>, <FunType>, <Status> and <Circuit> statements may occur in any
order.
.PP
.I "CIRCUIT"
.br
A circuit describes a network of (yet other) circuits that implement the
function.  A circuit also groups layouts that have identical net lists.
Synopsis:

    <Circuit> ::= (Circuit <circuitname>
                      <Status>?
                      <CirPortList>?
                      <CirInstList>?
                      <NetList>?
                      <BusList>?
                      <Attribute>?
                      <Layout>* )

    <CirPortList> ::= (CirPortList <CirPort>* )

    <CirPort> ::= (CirPort <cirportname> )

    <CirInstList> ::= (CirInstList <CirInst>* )

    <CirInst> ::= (CirInst <cirinstname> <CirCellRef>
                           <attributestring>? )

    <CirCellRef> ::= (CirCellRef <circuitname>
                                 <CirFunRef>? )

    <CirFunRef> ::= (CirFunRef <functionname> <CirLibRef>? )

    <CirLibRef> ::= (CirLibRef <libraryname> )

    <NetList> ::= (NetList <Net>* )

    <Net> ::= (Net <netname> <Joined> )

    <Joined> ::= (Joined <NetPortRef>* )

    <NetPortRef> ::= (NetPortRef <cirportname>
                                 <NetInstRef>? )

    <NetInstRef> ::= (NetInstRef <cirinstname> )

    <BusList> ::= (BusList <bus>* )

    <Bus> ::= (Bus <busname> <NetRef>* )

    <Attribute> ::= (Attribute <attributestring>? )

    <NetRef> ::= (NetRef <netname> <NetPortRef>* )
.PP
The CirPortList is the list of i/o ports ("terminals") through which the
circuit comunicates with other circuits. The CirInstList names all circuits
that are one step lower in the hierarchy (note: this is
.I not
the meta hierarchy). The NetList specifies the connections between the CirPorts
on this (parent) circuit and the CirPorts on the child circuits listed in the
CirInstList. Sometimes it is convenient to think of a set of Nets as a bus. The
Bus statement provides a means for net grouping. WARNING: the current
implementation (october 1991) disallows <NetPortRef>s in a <NetRef>.
The Attribute string specifies miscellaneous information about the circuit. For
instance, the attributes of a transistor could be "l=1.6 w=23", specifying
the channel length and width. The attributes of a circuit instance usually
override the (default) attributes of the instantiated circuit.
.PP
.I "LAYOUT"
.br
A layout statement describes the geometry of a circuit implementation.
Synopsis:

    <Layout> ::= (Layout <layoutname>
                     <Status>?
                     <LayPortList>?
                     <LayBbx>?
                     <LayOffset>?
                     {<LayInstList> | <LaySlice>}?
                     <WireList>? )

    <LayPortList> ::= (LayPortList <LayPort>* )

    <LayPort> ::= (LayPort <cirportname>
                      <PortLayer>? <LayPort>? )

    <PortLayer> ::= (PortLayer <layernumber> )

    <PortPos> ::= (PortPos <xposition> <yposition> )

    <LayBbx> ::= (LayBbx <xlength> <ylength> )

    <LayOffset> ::= (LayOffset <xoffset> <yoffset> )

    <LayInstList> ::= (LayInstList
                          <LayInst>*
                          <LaySlice>*
                          <LayInstList>* )

    <LayInst> ::= (LayInst <layinstname> <LayCellRef>
                      <Orient>? )

    <Orient> ::= (Orient <mtx0> <mtx1> <mtx2>
                         <mtx3> <mtx4> <mtx5> )

    <LayCellRef> ::= (LayCellRef <layoutname> <LayCirRef>? )

    <LayCirRef> ::= (LayCirRef <circuitname> <LayFunRef>? )

    <LayFunRef> ::= (LayFunRef <functionname> <LayLibRef>? )

    <LayLibRef> ::= (LayLibRef <libraryname> )

    <LaySlice> ::= (LaySlice {vertical | horizontal | chaos}
                       <LayInst>*
                       <LaySlice>*
                       <layInstList>* )

    <WireList> ::= (WireList <Wire>* )

    <Wire> ::= (Wire <layernumber> <xleft> <xright>
                   <ybottom> <ytop> )
.PP
The LayPortList lists for each CirPort one or more geometrical representations
(LayPorts). A LayPort occupies exactly one grid point indicated by PortPos. The
<layernumber> of the PortLayer (and also of the Wire statement) is interpreted
as follows.  If <layernumber> is positive then the indicated layer is added to
the position. If <layernumber> is negative then the layer 0 - <layernumber> is
removed from the position. Currently, the Oceanic sea-of-gates tools interpret
the layers 1, 2 and 3 as first metal, second metal and third metal. Contacts
between the image and first metal have <layernumber> 100, contacts between
first and second metal have <layernumber> 101 and contacts between second and
third metal have <layernumber> 102.  The LayBbx statement declares the bounding
box of the layout. The LayOffset specifies a shift with respect to the "basics
image", refer to
.I sdfimage (4SDF).
The LayInstList names the layout instances used. The LaySlice statement does
exactly the same, but it also specifies a slicing placement for the instances.
With the modifier "horizontal" the arguments of LaySlice are placed from left
to right. The modifier "vertical" specifies ordering from bottom to top.  The
modifier "chaos" does not specify any order at all -- it is equivalent to
LayInstList.  The WireList lists all the rectangles that make up the layout.
Interpretation of <layernumber> is as described above.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Patrick Groeneveld and Paul Stravers, Delft University of Technology.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sealib(3SDF), sdfread(3SDF), sdfwrite(3SDF), sdfopen(3SDF), sdfclose(3SDF),
sdfimage(4SDF).
