.TH SLSMOD 4ICD "File Formats"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
slsmod - process file for sls
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I slsmod
contains the process information for the
.I sls
simulator.
This file is used by
.I sls
when a simulation is done at level 2 or level 3.
.PP
The following variables are used in an
.I slsmod
process file:
.TP 12
.I vh
The positive supply voltage in the circuit (vl = 0 is assumed).
.TP
.I vswitch
Switching voltage for O to I and I to O transitions.
If this variable is not specified, vswitch = vh/2 is used.
.TP
.I vminh
Minimum stable voltage for a logic I state.
.TP
.I vmaxl
Maximum stable voltage for a logic O state.
.TP
.I krise
Factor with which RC time constants for rising voltages
are multiplied during timing simulation.
.TP
.I kfall
Factor with which RC time constants for falling voltages
are multiplied during timing simulation.
.TP
.I loffset
Value which has to be subtracted from the layout-specified length
of a transistor to gain the effective length of the transistor.
.TP
.I woffset
Value which has to be subtracted from the layout-specified width
of a transistor to gain the effective width of the transistor.
.TP
.I rstat
The resistance between drain and source used for stable voltage determination.
.TP
.I rsatu
The same resistance but now for the saturated case.
A transistor is said to be saturated when - after an initial calculation
with rstat resistances - it appears that Vdrain or Vsource > vswitch (for nenh
transistors) or Vdrain or Vsource < vswitch (for penh transistors).
.TP
.I cgstat
The gate capacitance of the transistor used for stable voltage determination.
.TP
.I cgrise
The gate capacitance of the transistor used for rise time calculations.
.TP
.I cgfall
The gate capacitance of the transistor used for fall time calculations.
.TP
.I cestat
The drain or source capacitance of the transistor used for stable
voltage determination.
.TP
.I cerise
The drain or source capacitance of the transistor used for rise
time calculations.
.TP
.I cefall
The drain or source capacitance of the transistor used for fall
time calculations.
.TP
.I rdyn
The resistance between source and drain used for rise and fall time
calculations.
.TP
.I cch
The drain or source capacitance of the transistor which is used
in addition to \fIcerise\fP or \fIcefall\fP
during rise and fall time calculations.
However, this capacitance is only used if the transistor is conducting.
.RE
.PP
First the general simulation parameters
\fIvh\fP,
(eventually \fIvswitch\fP),
\fIvminh\fP,
\fIvmaxl\fP,
\fIkrise\fP and
\fIkkfall\fP
are specified in the
.I slsmod
file.
Next, the other parameters - which are the transistor
model parameters - are specified.
.PP
Transistor model parameters can be specified
for a nenh, a penh and a ndep transistor.
Each of these parameter specifications might be omitted
but their order is fixed.
.PP
For each transistor first a specification of \fIloffset\fP
and \fIwoffset\fP is done.
Then the other variables are specified by giving their
value for some typical transistor dimensions.
This is done by first specifying the values
for a minimum width and length and then specifying
the values for a width and length that only differ from
the first width and length by that the
width is larger or that the length is larger.
.PP
In order to obtain the parameters for transistors that have
dimensions that are not enumerated,
.I sls
will perform an interpolation.
.PP
For each transistor there is one general parameter specification
list and several mode parameter specification lists.
The general specification list contains the values for
\fIrstat\fP,
\fIcgstat\fP,
\fIcgrise\fP,
\fIcgfall\fP,
\fIcestat\fP,
\fIcerise\fP and
\fIcefall\fP,
and the mode specification lists
contain the values for
\fIrdyn\fP and
\fIcch\fP.
.PP
For the nenh transistor and the penh transistor
\fIrdyn\fP and \fIcch\fP have
to be specified for the following modes:
.TP 14
.I pullup
A transistor is in the pullup mode when there is static current flow
through it and when a time constant for a falling voltage is determined.
.TP
.I pulldown
A transistor is in the pulldown mode when there is static current flow
through it and when a time constant for a falling voltage is determined.
.TP
.I passup
A transistor is in the passup mode when there is no static current flow
through it and when a time constant for a rising voltage is determined.
.TP
.I passdown
A transistor is in the passdown mode when there is no static current flow
through it and when a time constant for a falling voltage is determined.
.RE
.PP
Whether or not there is a static current flow through a transistor
is determined by considering all transistors
to be "on".
.PP
For an ndep transistor
.I rdyn
and
.I cch
have to be specified for the modes:
.TP 14
.I load
A transistor is in the load mode when its
gate is connected to its drain or source (via a resistor).
.TP
.I superload
A transistor is in the superload mode when its
gate is not connected to its drain or source (via a resistor).
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
Below an example of a slsmod file for a NMOS process is given.
.PP
.nf
/* process : nmos4u700A  TU-Delft
/* author  : A.J. Schooneveld, TU-Delft
/* date    : 6 May 1987
*/

vh=5
vminh=4
vmaxl=1
krise=0.90
kfall=0.66

nenh
   loffset=0.625u
   woffset=0.88u
   w=6u l=4u : rstat=4.97k rsatu=25.4k
               cgstat=13.0f cgrise=9.2f
               cgfall=12.0f cestat=2.2f
               cerise=2.4f cefall=2.9f
   w=15u l=4u : rstat=1.69k rsatu=6.95k
                cgstat=48.8f cgrise=24.2f
                cgfall=38.0f cestat=6.3f
                cerise=5.6f cefall=8.9f
   w=30u l=4u : rstat=0.832k rsatu=3.19k
                cgstat=92.1f cgrise=54.1f
                cgfall=82.2f cestat=12.8f
                cerise=11.8f cefall=15.0f
   pullup
      /* not determined */
      w=6u l=4u : rdyn=22.3k cch=8.7f
      w=15u l=4u : rdyn=5.3k cch=31.8f
      w=30u l=4u : rdyn=2.2k cch=53.3f
   end
   pulldown
      w=6u l=4u : rdyn=22.3k cch=8.7f
      w=15u l=4u : rdyn=5.3k cch=31.8f
      w=30u l=4u : rdyn=2.2k cch=53.3f
   end
   passup
      w=8u l=4u : rdyn=7.94k cch=4.62f
   end
   passdown
      w=8u l=4u : rdyn=5.24k cch=5.29f
   end
end

ndep
   loffset=0.605u
   woffset=1.2u
   w=6u l=4u : rstat=29.2k rsatu=29.2k
               cgstat=7.8f cgrise=10.7f
               cgfall=23.4f cestat=0f
               cerise=0f cefall=0f
   w=6u l=10u : rstat=76.5k rsatu=76.5k
                cgstat=11.7f cgrise=19.8f
                cgfall=28.2f cestat=0f
                cerise=0f cefall=0f
   w=12u l=4u : rstat=10.2k rsatu=10.2k
                cgstat=16.4f cgrise=31.7f
                cgfall=46.0f cestat=0f
                cerise=0f cefall=0f
   load
      w=6u l=4u : rdyn=25.5k cch=-3.6f
      w=6u l=10u : rdyn=66.3k cch=-14.9f
      w=12u l=4u : rdyn=8.7k cch=-15.9f
   end
   superload
      w=12u l=4u : rdyn=3.63k cch=-15.6f
   end
end

.fi
.DE
.AU "A.J. van Genderen"
.SH SEE ALSO
A.J. Schooneveld,
"Determination of SLS transistor model parameters",
Delft University of Technology,
.br
sls(1ICD).
