.TH SPACE 4ICD "File Formats"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
space - technology files for the space layout to circuit extractor
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I space
(1ICD)
layout to circuit extractor is technology independent.
At start up,
it reads a tabular element definition file
specifying
how the different elements like conductors and transistors
can be recognized from the different mask combinations,
and which values should be used for, for example, conductor
capacitivity and conductor resistivity.
This tabular element file is constructed
from a user-defined element definition file by the
space technology compiler \fItecc\fP(1ICD).
For a description of the format of such a file,
see \fItecc\fP(1ICD).
.PP
The default element definition file is
\fIspace.def.t\fP in the appropriate directory of the ICD process library.
However,
there can be several other element definition files for a particular
process.
For example,
the file \fIspace.max.t\fP may
contain an element description with worst-case capacitance
and resistance values.
This file can be read rather than the standard file by
specifying \fI-e max\fP while invoking space.
The user can also prepare his own element definition file
and specify the name of that file with the \fI-E\fP option of space.
For preparation of a customized element definition file,
it is perhaps best to modify a copy of the source of one of the ``official''
element definition tables.
These sources are also in the ICD process library.
.PP
Additionaly,
some aspects of
.I space
are under control of some parameters that
are specified in a parameter file.
This file contains some key-value pairs,
one per line,
adjusting some of the defaults of space.
For a description of all settable parameters,
see space (1ICD).
.PP
The default parameter file is
\fIspace.def.p\fP in the appropriate directory of the ICD process library,
but the user can choose other parameter files with the -p or -P options
of space.
.AU "A.J. van Genderen, N.P. van der Meijs"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/space.def.t\fP
default element definition file
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/space.def.s\fP
source of default element definition file
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/space.def.p\fP
default parameter file
.SH SEE ALSO
space (1ICD), tecc (1ICD)
