.ll 77
.hy
.TH CS 3SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.SH NAME
cs, canonicstring, fs, forgetstring - functions to efficiently store strings in a static heap
.SH SYNOPSIS
 #include <sealib.h>

 STRING cs(char *somestring)

 STRING canonicstring(char *somestring)

 int fs(STRING canonstring)

 int forgetstring(STRING canonstring)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Cs() maintains a private heap containing copies of all the strings currently
known to cs(). On every call, cs() inspects this heap to see if the argument
somestring is already in the heap. If so, cs() returns a pointer to the copy in
the heap. If not, cs() copies the new string to the heap and then
returns a pointer to this copy.

Cs() internally associates a reference count with each string in the heap. When
a string is copied to the heap this reference count is initialized to 1. Any
subsequent request for storage of the same string causes cs() to increment the
reference count of this string.

Canonicstring() performs exactly the same operation as cs(); it calls cs(), so
the latter is a little bit faster, though somewhat more cryptic.

Strings no longer worth to remember can be removed from the heap by calling
fs() or forgetstring() using the canonic string to be removed as an argument.
Fs() operates by first decrementing the reference count associated with the
string to forget. Only if the count becomes zero the string is removed from
the heap.

If a program immediately stores its strings thru cs() as the strings enter the
program's environment, no subsequent calls to strcmp() are needed to test
whether two canonicized strings are equal because cs() guarantees equality if
the STRING pointers are equal. The
.I sealib (3SDF)
functions use this feature to speed up their search thru the database
administration.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Cs() and canonicstring() return a character pointer (type STRING).
Fs() and forgetstring() return NIL if the string is not in the heap, i.e. not
canonic. Otherwise they return TRUE.
.SH "LIMITATION"
Although cs() accepts strings of any length, it does not store more than 257
chars (including terminating NULL). Consequently, two strings are considered
equal if they do not differ in any of the first 256 chars.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
This piece of code first canonicizes the string "blablah" and then immediately
forgets about it:

      if ( fs(cs("blablah")) == NIL )
         error("this can never happen...");

.SH "AUTHOR"
Paul Stravers, Delft University of Technology.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sealib(3SDF).
