.ll 77
.hy
.TH MEMMAN 3SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.SH NAME
mnew, mfree - functions for fast allocation of small memory chunks
.SH SYNOPSIS
 char *mnew(int size)

 void mfree(char **memblk, int size)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Mnew() returns a memory block of the requested size. The parameter
.I size
is in bytes. All bytes in the block are cleared. Mfree() returns a memory block
to the free list so that it can be used by mnew() again.

Mnew is much faster than
.I malloc (3)
because it obtains large blocks of memory from the system by calling
.I sbrk (2).
Each time mnew() is called it just returns a small piece of this large block.
Only once in many times the large block is exhausted, urging mnew() to call
sbrk() again.

All the sealib functions call mnew() and mfree() to deal with memory allocation
for the structures that make up the in-core seadif tree (see
.I sealib (3SDF)).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Mnew returns a pointer to the requested block. Alignment of the pointer is
guaranteed to be suitable for any data type in the C programming language.
If the requested block size is out of range, mnew() returns NIL.
.SH LIMITATION
Mnew() and mfree() do not deal with blocks larger than 256 bytes.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
Suppose we have a structure named DTYPE, then the following two #define's
provide functionality to create new objects of type DTYPE and also to get rid
of them at will:

 #define NewDtype(dptr) \\
         { \\
         (dptr)=(DTYPE *)mnew(sizeof(DTYPE)); \\
         (dptr)->field=initvalue; \\
         }

 #define FreeDtype(dptr) \\
         mfree((char **)dptr,sizeof(DTYPE))

If initvalue is 0 then the initializing statement in the NewDtype macro is
unnecessary. We don't check if mnew() returns NIL because we know at compile
time that sizeof(DTYPE) is within the permitted range.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Paul Stravers, Delft University of Technology.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
malloc(3), sbrk(2), sealib(3SDF).
