.ll 77
.hy
.TH SDFOPEN 3SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.SH NAME
sdfopen - function to open a seadif database
.SH SYNOPSIS
 #include <sealib.h>

 int sdfopen(void)

.SH DESCRIPTION
This function obtains the table of contents of the seadif database (see
.I sealib (3SDF))
and stores this information in in-core hash tables.
Subsequent calls to other
sealib function use these hash tables to get information about the database
and to administrate some of their actions.

The environment variable SEALIB specifies a colon-separated list of directories
to be searched for seadif files.
It is not an error if one or more directories do not exists.
If SEALIB is not set in the environment then the default value
is ".:/usr/local/lib/seadif".

The variable SEALIBWRITE can be set to a colon-separated list of directories
containing the seadif files that are allowed to be modified.
Directories that appear in the SEALIBWRITE list and
that do not occur in the SEALIB list are ignored.
If SEALIBWRITE is not set, then all (writable) seadif files found
through SEALIB can be written with the
.I sdfwrite (3SDF)
functions.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Sdfopen() returns SDF_NOERROR on success.
If parts of the database are found to be locked SDFERROR_FILELOCK is returned.
Other failures cause SDFERROR_SEADIF to be returned.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Paul Stravers, Delft University of Technology.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sealib(3SDF), sdfwrite(3SDF), sdfread(3SDF), seadif(4SDF), sdfclose(3SDF),
cs(3SDF), sdfattachlib(3SDF), sdfexists(3SDF), memman(3SDF), sdfimage(4SDF).
