.ll 77
.hy
.TH SDFREADALL 3SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.SH NAME
sdfreadallcir, sdfreadalllay - set of sealib routines to read a hierarchical
subtree of objects from the seadif database into main memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
 #include <sealib.h>

 extern LIBRARYPTR  thislib;
 extern FUNCTIONPTR thisfun;
 extern CIRCUITPTR  thiscir;
 extern LAYOUTPTR   thislay;


 int sdfreadallcir(long what, STRING cirname,
                   STRING funname, STRING libname)

 int sdfreadalllay(long what, STRING layname, STRING cirname,
                   STRING funname, STRING libname)

.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions read the named object and recursively all its child cells from
a seadif database and install the object and its children in an in-core tree.
The root of the tree is sdfroot, see
.I sealib (3SDF).
The database must have been opened with the sealib function
.I sdfopen (3SDF).

The parameter "what" specifies what attributes of the object must be read.
Legal values are exactly as described in
.I sdfread (3SDF).
In fact, sdfreadall operates by repeatedly calling sdfread. (You could have
written sdfreadall by yourself, but we provided it for your convenience...)

The value of the global variables
.I thislib ,
.I thisfun ,
.I thiscir
and
.I thislay
refer to the specified parent cell, not to its children.
See manual page of sdfread for details.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Both functions return TRUE on succes and NIL on failure.
.SH "WARNINGS"
Do not forget to canonicize the cell names before passing them to sdfread.
See also

Don't you dare to change the name of a cell. This would confuse the sealib
internal administration and invalidate the hashtables !!!
.I sealib (3SDF)
and
.I cs (3SDF).
.SH "AUTHOR"
Paul Stravers, Delft University of Technology.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sdfread(3SDF), sealib(3SDF), seadif(4SDF), sdfwrite(3SDF), sdfopen(3SDF),
sdfclose(3SDF), cs(3SDF), sdfattachlib(3SDF), sdfexists(3SDF), memman(3SDF),
sdfimage(4SDF).
