.ll 77
.hy
.TH SDFREAD 3SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.SH NAME
sdfreadlib, sdfreadfun, sdfreadcir, sdfreadlay - set of sealib routines to
read objects from the seadif database into main memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
 #include <sealib.h>

 extern LIBRARYPTR  thislib;
 extern FUNCTIONPTR thisfun;
 extern CIRCUITPTR  thiscir;
 extern LAYOUTPTR   thislay;

 int sdfreadlib(long what, STRING libname)

 int sdfreadfun(long what, STRING funname, STRING libname)

 int sdfreadcir(long what, STRING cirname, STRING funname,
                STRING libname)

 int sdfreadlay(long what, STRING layname, STRING cirname,
                STRING funname, STRING libname)

.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions read the named object from a seadif database and install the
object in an in-core tree. The root of the tree is sdfroot, see
.I sealib (3SDF).
The database must have been opened with the sealib function
.I sdfopen (3SDF).

The parameter "what" specifies what attributes of the object must be read.
Currently the following values are legal for what:

With
.I sdfreadlib ()
the value SDFLIBBODY requests the bare library.
  SDFLIBSTAT requests the library status.
  SDFLIBALL requests all aforementioned library features.

With
.I  sdfreadfun ()
the value SDFFUNBODY requests the bare function.
  SDFFUNSTAT requests the function status.
  SDFFUNTYPE requests the function type and
  SDFFUNALL requests everyting.

With
.I  sdfreadcir ()
the value SDFCIRBODY requests the bare circuit.
  SDFCIRSTAT requests the circuit status.
  SDFCIRPORT requests the list of circuit ports.
  SDFCIRINST requests the list of circuit instances (children of the circuit).
  SDFCIRNETLIST requests the list of nets.
  SDFCIRBUS requests the list of buses.
  SDFCIRATTRIB requests the circuit attributes and
  SDFCIRALL requests all circuit features listed above.

Some attributes depend on other attributes. For instance the presence of the
netlist requires the presence of the port list (SDFCIRPORT) and the instance
list (SDFCIRINST) and of course the circuit body (SDFCIRBODY). The function
sdfreadcir() "knows" these dependencies and automatically adds such attributes if
the request makes it necessary.

With
.I  sdfreadlay ()
the value SDFLAYBODY requests the bare layout.
  SDFLAYSTAT requests the layout status.
  SDFLAYPORT requests the list of layout ports. (Each layout port corresponds to a
circuit port but a circuit port may correspond to several layout ports.)
  SDFLAYSLICE requests the sliceing tree of the floorplan. This tree contains the
names and placement of all the child layouts.
  SDFLAYWIRE requests the list of all wires (rectangles) that make up the layout.
  SDFLAYBBX requests the sizes of the bounding box to be read. (This information
is actually redundant because it can be derived from the extreme values of the
rectangles in the wire list and the layout port list.)
  SDFLAYOFF requests the offset of the cell to the lower-left corner of a basic
sea-of-gates image.
  SDFLAYATTRIB requests the layout attributes (currently not supported).
  SDFLAYALL requests all layout features listed above.

As said before, the sdfread functions install the requested objects in the
sdfroot tree. In addition, one or more global variables are left to point to
the objects just read. These are the variables named
.I thislib ,
.I thisfun ,
.I thiscir
and
.I thislay .
For instance, after a succesfull call "sdfreadcir(SDFCIRALL,cnam,fnam,bnam)"
the global variable thislib points to the library named bnam, thisfun points to
the function fnam and thiscir points to the circuit cnam.

If you want to read a cell which is composed of yet other cells (for instance:
a flip-flop built from latches, the latches in turn built from nands and the
nands built from transistors) you can call the function sdfreadallcir() or
sdfreadalllay() to obtain all levels of the hierarchy in a single call. (Note:
this is not the meta hierarchy.) The manual page
.I sdfreadall (3SDF)
unveils the details.

The sealib functions keep a record of all the objects and attributes that have
been read into core. As a consequence, repeated calls for the same object
result only the first time in retrieving the object from the database. The
following calls just set the global pointers to the previously read object.
This behavior is especially advantageous when a hierarchical cell is read that
at some point in its hierarchy refers a number of times to the same child cell.
Only one time needs the function sdfread retrieve this child cell from the database.
While descending the hierarchy tree, sdfread automatically discriminates
between newly encountered cells and those that are already in core. This speeds
up the sdfread function significantly.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
All functions return TRUE on succes and NIL on failure.
.SH "WARNINGS"
Do not forget to canonicize the cell names before passing them to sdfread. See
also
.I sealib (3SDF)
and
.I cs (3SDF).

Don't you dare to change the name of a cell. This would confuse the sealib
internal administration and invalidate the hashtables !!!
.SH "EXAMPLE"
This piece of code reads the layout (small(cmos(nand2(basic_stuff)))), calls a
user function to compute the bounding box and then writes the result back to
the database.

  #include <sealib.h>

  main()
  {
  if (sdfopen() == NIL)
     error("cannot open database");
  update_bbx();
  if (sdfclose() == NIL)
     error("cannot close database");
  }

  void update_bbx()
  {
  STRING lnam,cnam,fnam,bnam;
  long   whatweneed
  short  xsize,ysize;

  lnam = cs("small"); cnam = cs("cmos");
  fnam = cs("nand2"); bnam = cs("basis_stuff");
  whatweneed = SDFLAYPORT + SDFLAYWIRE;
  if (sdfreadlay(whatweneed,lnam,cnam,fnam,bnam) == NIL)
     error("cannot read layout");
  compute_bbx(&xsize,&ysize,thislay);
  thislay->bbx[HOR] = xsize;
  thislay->bbx[VER] = ysize;
  if (sdfwritelay(SDFLAYBBX,thislay) == NIL)
     error("cannot write layout");
  }

.SH "AUTHOR"
Paul Stravers, Delft University of Technology.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sdfreadall(3SDF), sdflist(3SDF), sdflistall(3SDF), sealib(3SDF), seadif(4SDF),
sdfwrite(3SDF), sdfopen(3SDF), sdfclose(3SDF), cs(3SDF), sdfattachlib(3SDF),
sdfexists(3SDF), memman(3SDF), sdfimage(4SDF).
