.ll 77
.hy
.TH SEALIB 3SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.SH NAME
sealib - set of library functions to manage a seadif database
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <sealib.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
A seadif database basicly consists of a small number of files (typicly 1 to
20) each containing one or more libraries in the seadif language.
(The manual page
.I seadif (4SDF)
describes the seadif language.)
A seadif file name always end in ".sdf".
The set of seadif files that make up a consistent database can either be in a
single directory or in multiple directories. The user indicates which
directories belong to the database by setting the environment variable SEALIB.
Alternative directory names are separated by a colon (:).
The default value of SEALIB is ".:/usr/local/lib/seadif" (specifying the current
directory and /usr/local/lib/seadif to contain the seadif files that make up a
single consistent seadif database).

The sealib library package provides a convenient means for reading and writing
the objects in a seadif database. Sealib operates on the predefined in-core
data structures described in the file <libstruct.h> These data structures
represent a list of libraries. Each library contains a list of functions and
each function contains a hierarchical tree of circuits.
In turn, each circuit refers to a hierarchical tree of layouts.
Thus the four-level meta hierarchy as discussed in
.I seadif (4SDF)
is also present in memory.
At the top of the meta hierarchy is the global
variable sdfroot (declared in libstruct.h).
It points to the list of libraries.

Before any interaction with the database can take place it must be opened with
the sealib function
.I sdfopen (3SDF).
This function constructs a table of contents of the database and stores it in
hash tables in main memory, thus enabling fast access to the database.
Following this initialization step, the user can read data objects at any of
the four levels of meta hierarchy into main memory: libraries with
sdfreadlib(), functions with sdfreadfun(), circuits with sdfreadcir() and
layouts with the sealib function sdfreadlay().
The manual page
.I sdfread (3SDF)
describes the operation of these functions.
In a similar way the functions sdfwritelib(), sdfwritefun(), sdfwritecir() and
sdfwritelay() allow for data objects at any level of the meta hierarchy to be
written into the database, see the manual page
.I sdfwrite (3SDF).
Before the user exits, he/she must call the function sdfclose(), as described
in
.I sdfclose (3SDF).
If for some reason sdfclose() is not called, the database will not be updated
but remain as it was when it was opened by sdfopen(), even if the database had
been "written". A pleasant consequence of this behavior is that if a program
crashes before it calls sdfclose(), the database will not be left in a
partially updated state.

The user can acquire (read only) access to the hash tables constructed by
sdfopen() by calling any of the functions sdfexistslib(), sdfexistsfun(),
sdfexistscir() and sdfexistslay() as described in the manual page
.I sdfexists (3SDF).
This is especially useful when the user needs information regarding the meta
hierarchy. For instance, a question like "which layouts implement this
circuit?" could be answered by calling sdfexistscir(). For details, refer to
the appropriate manual page.

Normally it is transparent to the user in which file a particular data object
resides. The only thing the user needs to know is the seadif name of the
object, not the name of the file where the object happens to be. However, when
the user creates a new library it is not clear in which file it must be stored.
In such cases the sealib functions inspect the environment variable NEWSEALIB.
It should hold the name of the file where new libraries ought to go. If
NEWSEALIB is not set, new libraries by default go into the file
"@newsealib.sdf".

At any time, the user may force a particular library to go into a specified
file. The manual page
.I sdfattachlib (3SDF)
explains the details.

The sealib functions often must be passed character strings for names of seadif
objects. In order to speed up the interaction with the database, all strings
must be canonicized by the function
.I cs (3SDF)
before they can be used as a parameter to a sealib function. Strings returned
by the sealib functions are guaranteed to be canonic, so they can be used as
parameter without processing by cs().
.SH "WARNINGS"
The sealib package provides for single user access only. Parts of the database
can be shared among multiple projects as long as they are read only.
The database was designed to be fast and disc-space efficient. As a
consequence fancy stuff like access control and version control has been left
out. If you really are in need for such features you can implement a fancy
shell around the sealib package to do it for you...
.SH "AUTHORS"
Paul Stravers and Patrick Groeneveld, Delft University of Technology.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sdfread(3SDF), sdfwrite(3SDF), sdfdelete(3SDF), sdfopen(3SDF), sdfclose(3SDF),
sdfattachlib(3SDF), sdfexists(3SDF), cs(3SDF), memman(3SDF), seadif(4SDF),
sdfimage(4SDF).
