.TH AUTOCHECK 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
autocheck - do a single layer check
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autocheck [-f] [-g] [-t] [-v]
[cell_name]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -f
Use file 'dimcheckdata1' from the
current working directory as
design_rule file instead of the standard one.
.TP
.B -g
Report gap errors between elements of the same group.
.TP
.B -t
Debugging option,
do not filter or merge error messages
for a non orthogonal layout.
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Autocheck
checks the layers of a cell definition on design rule errors.
Width and gap checks are performed.
.br
Gap errors between edges of the same group are
usually suppressed, use the -g option if this is not desired.
.br
The errors are reported on the standard output.
.PP
The program
.I autocheck
can be used after
.I exp.
.PP
The checking is performed by subprogram \fIdimcheck\fP,
which is called automatically (with option -a).
.PP
If no cell_name is specified the cells to be checked
are read from the file "exp_dat".
.PP
The current working directory must be the project directory.
.AU "T.G.R. van Leuken, J. Fokkema"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/bin/dimcheck\fP
executable
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/TECHN/dimcheckdata1\fP
(TECHN=technology directory)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/exp_dat\fP
names of cells to be checked
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/cell/LC_vln\fP
input files, LC=LayerCode
.SH SEE ALSO
T.G.R. van Leuken, J. Liedorp "An Hierarchical and Technology
Independent Design Rule Checker", Delft University of Technology,
.br
dimcheck(1ICD),
dimdata(4ICD),
exp(1ICD).
.SH BUGS
It is understood that the design rules are consistent.
Error reporting is rather poor;
the kind of error (width or gap) is
reported together with the coordinates
of the two points between which the error occurred.
In case of non orthogonal layouts the errors reported
may be shifted a little from the place where they
occurred due to rounding errors.
