.TH CCIF 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
ccif - convert CIF to layout database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ccif
[-4bforstvxz] [-u unit] [-w size] inputfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -4
Test non-orthogonal input conform 45 degree.
.TP
.B -b
Sound the bell if the program is finished.
.TP
.B -f
Enables cell overwrite (force) mode.
.TP
.B -o
Use no-origin mode (default).
.TP
.B -r
Give no rounding messages.
.TP
.B -s
Do only a syntax check.
.TP
.B -t
Generate a terminal point or terminal box (depending on the
value of the option -w).
For CIF files, where the terminal specification is not coincide with the
previous box specification.
This option is for the old 94 user code interpretation (option -z).
.TP
.B -v
Enable the verbose mode.
.TP
.B -u
Set the cifunit of the parameters in the CIF file, the default cifunit is 100.
.TP
.B -w
Specifies the size of terminal boxes that are generated because of
the use of the option -t (default 0).
.TP
.B -x
Use origin mode.
.TP
.B -z
Use the user 94 codes for terminals (old mode).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ccif
adds the layout description of one or more cells
(symbols in CIF)
to the ICD database.
If a cell description is read,
.I ccif
creates a new cell directory,
and translates the CIF cell description
into an internal database format.
.PP
The cell descriptions are read from the specified CIF file,
which must be the last argument.
In most cases a file with suffix ".cif".
The input must be conform the syntax rules of CIF.
If not, a syntax error will be the result,
and an appropriate error message will be generated.
.PP
IMPORTANT:
.I ccif
requires that cells (symbols) that are called in the CIF file
are defined earlier in the file.
.br
NEW:
.I ccif
can use the comment after a 'C0'-call to set the cell name,
if symbol0 is not earlier defined in the file.
Thus, you can use library cells not defined in the CIF file.
.PP
To help you in making a correct cell definition you can invoke
.I ccif
with option -s.
In that case
.I ccif
performs only a syntax check, and two kinds of semantic checks, i.e.:
.nf
.PP
1) a cell may not be redefined,
.PP
2) a cell called in a cell description must already exist.
.fi
.PP
With the origin mode (option -x)
the lower-left corner of the bounding box of a sub-cell is used
as the translation vector reference point.
Note that, if the bounding box information of sub-cells in the
database is incorrect, this sub-cells can be incorrectly placed.
.PP
If an error is detected the cell will not be added to the database.
This can result in subsequent error messages,
complaining about the fact that the cell does not exist.
.PP
The unit of the parameters is assumed to be in centi microns.
Since the unit of the database is lambda, each parameter is
multiplied by a resolution value:
.PP
new-parameter = parameter * resolution
.PP
resolution = (A/B) * (1/cifunit) * (1/projectlambda)
.PP
where A and B are the scaling factors of the Definition Start statement,
and cifunit is 100 (default).
Thus, with a cifunit of 100 and a projectlambda of 0.01 micron the
scaling (resolution) used is A/B.
.AU "J. Annevelink, S. de Graaf, T.G.R. van Leuken."
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/.dmrc\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/impcelllist\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/celllist\fP

.PP
For each \fIcell\fP in the celllist:

.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/annotations\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/box\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/info\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/mc\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/nor\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/term\fP
.SH LIMITATIONS
The current working directory must be the project directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
addproj(1ICD),
impcell(1ICD),
mkpr(1ICD),
xcif(1ICD).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are intended to be self-explanatory.
