.TH CLDM 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
cldm - convert LDM to layout database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cldm
[-4bforsvx] inputfile
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -4
Test non-orthogonal input conform 45 degree.
.TP
.B -b
Sound the bell if the program is finished.
.TP
.B -f
Enables cell overwrite (force) mode.
.TP
.B -o
Use no-origin mode (default).
.TP
.B -r
Give no rounding messages.
.TP
.B -s
Do only a syntax check.
.TP
.B -v
Enable the verbose mode.
.TP
.B -x
Use origin mode.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cldm
adds the layout description of one or more cells
(models in LDM)
to the ICD database.
If a cell description is read,
.I cldm
creates a new cell directory,
and translates the LDM cell description
into an internal database format.
.PP
The cell descriptions are read from the specified LDM file
and must be the last argument.
In most cases a file with suffix ".ldm".
The input must be conform the syntax rules of LDM.
If not, a syntax error will be the result,
and an appropriate error message will be generated.
.PP
To help you in making a correct cell definition you can invoke
.I cldm
with option -s.
In that case
.I cldm
performs only a syntax check, and two kinds of semantic checks, i.e.:
.nf
.PP
1) a cell may not be redefined,
.PP
2) a cell called in a cell description must already exist.
.fi
.PP
With the origin mode (option -x)
the lower-left corner of the bounding box of a sub-cell is used
as the translation vector reference point.
Note that if the input file for
.I cldm
was obtained with
.I xldm,
the option -x should only be used if and only if
it was also used with
.I xldm.
.PP
If an error is detected the cell will not be added to the database.
This can result in subsequent error messages,
complaining about the fact that the cell does not exist.
.AU "J. Annevelink, S. de Graaf"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/.dmrc\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/impcelllist\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/celllist\fP

.PP
For each \fIcell\fP in the celllist:

.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/annotations\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/box\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/info\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/mc\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/nor\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/term\fP
.SH LIMITATIONS
The current working directory must be the project directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
"The Geometrical Mask Layout Language LDM" - NELSIS user documentation.
.br
addproj(1ICD),
impcell(1ICD),
mkpr(1ICD),
xldm(1ICD).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are intended to be self-explanatory.
