.ll 77
.hy
.TH COLAPS 1SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.SH NAME
colaps - flatten the hierarchy of a cell in the circuit view

.SH SYNOPSIS
   colaps [...options...] [project] <sdfinputcell>

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
project
     Name of the (seadif) library project, if not specified
     local (seadif) library name is taken.
.TP
<sdfinputcell>
     Name of the (seadif) cell of the library project.

.SH OPTIONS
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad

.TP
-h Help--- print list of options.
.TP
-k <keepfile>
     Input file containing a list with circuits and/or
     instances which should not be flattened.
.TP
-c
     Flatten everything as far as the primary cell level,
     that is, down to the level which consists exclusively
     of transistors, capacitances or resistances.
.TP
-o <sdfoutputcell>
     Name of the output (seadif) cell to be created in local
     (seadif) library. The default output cell is <sdfinputcellFlt>
     for an (seadif) imported cell or <sdfinputcell> for a local
     cell.
.TP
-l
     Keep track of the flattened paths of the instances.
.TP
-f <trackfile>
     Output file containing the list with flattened paths
     and their instances. By default the <outputcell.list>
     is taken.
.TP
-q
     Do not print the state of the program during execution.

.RE

.SH
.SH DESCRIPTION

COLAPS reads the circuit description of an <sdfinputcell> and
recursively of all its children. It then removes the model
calls contained in this circuit tree by expanding them as far
as a certain optional level. Finally, it writes the flattened
cell into the <sdfoutputcell> of local (seadif) library. COLAPS
is operating on the (seadif) description of a cell. Therefore,
all the cells used must have a correspondent (seadif) description.

By default, COLAPS flattens all the circuits found in the
<sdfinputcell> to the <sdfoutputcell>. If one or more <childcircuit>
and/or <childinstance> are specified in <keepfile> then all but
the specified circuits and/or instances are flattened to the output.
If -c option is specified then all but primary cells are flattened
to the output. Mixed options -c and -k <keepfile> are possible.

.SH FILES

To run properly the command requires that a <keepfile> is
present in your current directory when -k option is specified.
This file should contain a list with the circuits and/or
instances which shouldn't be flattened. Each line in this file
should contain first the circuit name and/or second the instance
name which belongs to the circuit. If only the circuit name is
specified then this particular circuit is not flattened. If,
both a circuit and an instance name are specified then
this particular instance will not be flattened.
Everything after these two arguments is treated as comment.
The lines starting with procent character (%) are also treated
as comment lines.

An example of such a <keepfile> is:

    %keepfile for my inputcell
              .
              .
              .
    <sdfinputcell> <childinstance1>    do not flatten <childinstance1>
                                       %of circuit <sdfinputcell>
    <childcircuit1>                    %do not flatten <childcircuit1>
    <childcircuit2> <childinstance1>   do not flatten <childinstance1>
                                       %of circuit <childcircuit2>
              .
              .
              .
    %end of the list

.SH EXAMPLE
Use the program nelsea to convert the cell between nelsis and
seadif. To flatten all cells of nelsis circuit 'myadder' down
to the primary cell level, for example, use:

       nelsea -C myadder
       colaps -c myadder
       nelsea -rC myadder

To flatten all cells of imported circuit 'impcell_adder'
from project 'other_proj', exclusively the cells specified
in 'nonflatfile' and to keep track of flattened instance
paths use:

  colaps -l -k nonflatfile other_proj impcell_adder

Examples of other possibilities:

  colaps -l -f trackfile_name other_proj impcell_adder
  colaps -c -o outputcell_name other_proj impcell_adder
  colaps -c -k nonflatfile -o outputcell_name other_proj impcell_adder

.SH "AUTHOR"
   Viorica Simion, Delft University of Technology.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
   nelsea(1SDF)
