.TH CSPICE 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
cspice - convert SPICE network description into the database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cspice
[-psw] networkfile ...
.SH OPTIONS
The following options can be specified:
.TP
.B -p
Run the C preprocessor before parsing the input file.
.TP
.B -s
The silent mode suppresses messages about the actions taken by
.I cspice
which are usually printed on screen.
.TP
.B -w
Do not print warnings.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cspice
is a program that generates from a
.I SPICE
network description a circuit description in database format.
The database format can serve as input to several application programs,
e.g.
the circuit simulator \fIspice\fP,
the switch-level simulator \fIsls\fP,
and the network comparison program \fImatch\fP.
A description of the spice language
can be found in the SPICE User's Guide.
The spice description that can be used as input for
.I cspice
extends the normal spice network description
in that numbers as well as identifiers
may be used for node and terminal specifications.
.PP
A network description
can be hierarchical and may reside in several files.
However, when one particular network is added to the database,
network descriptions of the networks that are called in the
network must have been added to the database before.
.PP
In the file "global_nets" one may optionally specify names of nets (terminals)
that are global.
Each node or terminal that has a name equal to the name of a global
net, will be connected to other nodes and terminals that have the same name,
among other things by possibly defining extra terminals for each network.
First,
.I cspice
will try to find a file "global_nets"
in the current working directory.
Second, if the above attempt fails,
.I cspice
will try to open a file "global_nets"
in the corresponding process directory.
.SH "NUMERIC SUFFIXES"
.I Cspice
supports the following scale-factor letter conventions (case is insignificant):
.sp
.TP
.B
A
1e-18
.TP
.B
F
1e-15
.TP
.B
P
1e-12
.TP
.B
N
1e-9
.TP
.B
U
1e-6
.TP
.B
M
1e-3
.TP
.B
MI
25.4e-4 (MIL)
.TP
.B
K
1e+3
.TP
.B
ME
1e+6 (MEG)
.TP
.B
G
1e+9
.TP
.B
T
1e+12
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE"
At start-up of the program,
.I cspice
will read some information from a configuration
file called ".cspicerc".
First,
it tries to read this file from the process directory (without leading dot).
Second, it tries to read this file from the home directory of the user.
Thirdly, it tries to read this file from the current directory.
Settings in the second and third configuration file overrule the previous
settings.
The configuration file may contain the following keywords, followed
by a specification on the same line if the keyword ends with ':';
.TP
FORBID_FIRST_CAPITAL_ON
Generate an error message if the name of a network
that is defined starts with a capital.
.TP
FORBID_FIRST_CAPITAL_OFF
Don't generate an error message (default mode).
.TP
RUN_CPP_ON
Run the C preprocessor before parsing the input file.
.TP
RUN_CPP_OFF
Don't run the C preprocessor (default mode).
.TP
CPP_OPTIONS:
Options for running the C preprocessor (default none).
.TP
DEFAULT_INCLUDE:
Specifies a file that is automatically included at the top of the input file
if the C preprocessor is run (default: no include).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% cspice latch.spc
.AU "A.C. de Graaf, A.J. van Genderen, S. de Graaf."
.SH FILES
.TP 20
ICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/cspicerc
(default) configuration file
.TP
HOME/.cspicerc
(1st altern.) configuration file
.TP
\&.cspicerc
(2nd altern.) configuration file
.TP
global_nets
(default) file to specify global nets
.TP
ICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/global_nets
(altern.) file to specify global nets
.TP
/usr/tmp/x*
temporary files
.SH SEE ALSO
"SPICE 3B1 User's Guide",
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences,
University of California,
Berkeley.
.br
csls(1ICD),
sls(1ICD),
nspice(1ICD),
xspice(1ICD).
