.TH DBCAT 1ICD "2/9/87"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dbcat - list stream data from ICD data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ie n .ta 30
.el .ta 0
\fBdbcat\fP [\fB-abv4\fP] [\fB-c\fP|\fB-f\fP] [\fB-s\fP dbstream] [\fB-n\fP name]
.if n .br
	[\fB-t\fP attr] [\fB-w\fP N] [cell ...]
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I cell
Process only the named cells.
.if !n .br
If this argument is not specified
option
.B -a
must be specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
List stream data of all cells.
.TP
.B -b
Brief circuit listing.
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B -4
Divide coordinates by 4.
.TP
.B -c
List only data of the circuit view.
.TP
.B -f
List only data of the floorplan view.
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIdbstream\fP
List only data of named stream.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIname\fP
List only that part of the data of the stream,
which matches this name (or net).
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fIattr\fP
List only net's with attribute \fIattr\fP.
.TP
\fB-w\fP \fIN\fP
.br
List nethead coordinates with min. width \fIN\fP (default 5).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dbcat
is a program to list the contents of the ICD data base.
Default the contents of the primary streams of the layout view are listed.
With option \fB-c\fP (\fB-f\fP) the primary streams
of the \fIcircuit\fP (\fIfloorplan\fP) view can be listed.
With option \fB-s\fP one specific stream (or set of streams, like "vln")
can be listed,
which need not to be a primary stream.
Note if the stream data is packed,
this is the only method to show this data on your terminal screen
in readable form.
.SH NOTE
Special \fIcircuit\fP view streams "mc..." and "net..." can now be listed
with option \fB-s\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
dbcat -c flip_flop
.br
dbcat -a -s term
.br
dbcat -cs nethead flip_flop
.br
dbcat -cs netsub flip_flop
.br
dbcat -cs mc2 flip_flop
.SH AUTHOR
S. de Graaf
