.TH DBLIST 1ICD "1/10/86"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dblist - list cells in the database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dblist
[-lcf] [-h] [-d] [-r] [cell]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -l
List only cells of the layout view.
.TP
.B -c
List only cells of the circuit view.
.TP
.B -f
List only cells of the floorplan view.
.TP
.B -h
Make a hierarchical listing.
.TP
.B -d
List also device calls in the circuit
in a hierarchical listing.
.TP
.B -r
List only the roots
in a hierarchical listing.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dblist
is a program that makes a listing of the cells that are present
in the IC design database.

When the option -h is specified,
a hierarchical listing of the cells will be shown.
In this situation,
a cell can be specified for which its tree is shown.
When no cell is specified,
a listing of all cell trees is made.

When the option -h is not specified,
a cell name or regular expression ('?', '*' or '[]') may be
specified and only the matching cell names are listed.
.SH EXAMPLES
The first example lists all cells
that are present in a database:
.nf

% dblist

layout:
feedback    mod2_fb    sel_reg8    xmc?
latch       rand_cnt   select      xyz!

circuit:
feedback    mod2_fb    rand_cnt    select
latch       multplex   sel_reg8    total
function:
f_latch
imported:
Xlatch      Xselect

floorplan:

.fi
Note that for a cell name followed with a '?' the "mc" file
is not found.
And for a cell name with '!' the cell directory is not found.

The second example lists only the cells of the layout view:
.nf

% dblist -l
feedback    mod2_fb    sel_reg8    xmc?
latch       rand_cnt   select      xyz!

.fi
The third example lists only the cells of the layout view,
which begin with the letter 's':
.nf

% dblist -l 's*'
sel_reg8    select

.fi
The fourth example lists only the cells of the layout view,
but in a single column if stdout is redirected:
.nf

% dblist -l | cat -n
    1  feedback
    2  latch
    3  mod2_fb
    4  rand_cnt
    5  sel_reg8
    6  select
    7  xmc?
    8  xyz!

.fi
The fifth example lists the cell tree of cell "rand_cnt"
for the layout view:
.nf

% dblist -lh rand_cnt
1 - rand_cnt    (2)
    2 - sel_reg8        1 (2)
        3 - latch            8 (0)
        3 - select           8 (0)
    2 - feedback        1 (3)
        3 - mod2_fb          3 (0)

.fi
The first number on a line is the level of the corresponding cell in
the cell tree.
The second number (if present) is the total number of times (incl. copies)
the cell is used,
and the third or last number (between parenthesis)
is the number of sub cells.
For example,
cell "sel_reg8" is on level 2,
it is used 1 time by "rand_cnt",
and it has 2 sub cells.
One of the sub cells is "latch",
which is used 8 times by "sel_reg8",
and which has no sub cells itself.
(It is a leaf cell).
Because "sel_reg8" has only 2 sub cells,
there must have been used a cell copy statement (array
specification) to get 8 "latch" cells.
.PP
For the circuit view,
the third or last number (between parenthesis) counts also
the device cell calls.
When a cell call is a call to a function block (if file "fterm" exists)
the third number for this cell will be replaced by 'function'.
.SH AUTHOR
S. de Graaf
.SH FILES
.TP
proj_dir/\fIview\fP/celllist
(input file)
.TP
proj_dir/\fIview\fP/\fIcell\fP/mc
(input file)
.TP
proj_dir/circuit/\fIcell\fP/fterm
(input file)

