.TH DEVICE 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
device - set or unset a device status for a circuit cell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B device
[-s | -u] [ cell ... ]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -s
Set the device status.
.TP
.B -u
Unset the device status.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Device
sets or unsets the device status for one or more circuit cells and prints
the new status(es).
If no option is specified, only the current status of the cell is printed.
.PP
For new projects with xcontrol use the program
.I xcontrol
to change and list the cell device status.
In that case,
the program
.I device
can only change and list the "devmod" file status.
.PP
If no cell is specified,
all device cells in the current project circuit view are listed.
The program also reads the imported circuit celllist and tries to find
. \"device status for aliases in the current project or tries to find
device status for imported cells in the remote projects.
A printed device status for a remote cell is flagged with an '*' sign.
.PP
When setting the device status for a cell that doesn't exist yet as a
circuit cell, a corresponding layout cell with the same name
has to be present (and its "term" stream).
In that case also the streams "mc", "net" and "term" are created,
and the celllist is updated.
.PP
When a cell is defined as a device,
.I space(1ICD)
will not extract this cell but it will include
it as a network primitive in the extracted circuit.
This will work both with hierarchical extraction
and flat extraction.
Moreover, circuit retrieval tools like
.I xsls(1ICD),
.I xspice(1ICD),
and
.I xvhdl(1ICD)
will also interpret cells that are devices
as network primitives.
.PP
When it is necessary to specify the order of the
terminals of the device cell or when it is necessary
to add a simulation model to the device, please use the tool
.I putdevmod(1ICD).
.PP
During extraction,
when a device cell is also a macro (see \fImacro(1ICD)\fP),
the layout of the cell will be expanded in each cell
where it is used as an instance.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
device
device -s nan2 nor2
device -u nan2
.SH FILES
.nf
NELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/term
NELSISPROJECT/circuit/celllist
NELSISPROJECT/circuit/impcelllist
NELSISPROJECT/circuit/\fIcell\fP/devmod
NELSISPROJECT/circuit/\fIcell\fP/mc
NELSISPROJECT/circuit/\fIcell\fP/net
NELSISPROJECT/circuit/\fIcell\fP/term
.SH LIMITATIONS
The program lists only cells which are in the circuit celllist(s).
. \"The program checks only the status remotely for an imported cell,
. \"when there is no local cell directory.
The program is not checking the celllist(s) when setting device status.
.SH SEE ALSO
macro(1ICD), putdevmod(1ICD), space(1ICD), xcontrol(1ICD).
