.TH DIMCHECK2 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dimcheck2 - do a complete design_rule check
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dimcheck2
[\fB-c|-n\fP] [\fB-f\fP] [\fB-g\fP] [\fB-t\fP] [-v] [cell_name]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
Perform hierarchy checks on the cell: i.e.
check if connections between sub_cells are made via terminals and
check if no elements are formed from primitives
from different sub_cells (\fInbool\fP default).
.TP
.B -n
Do not perform hierarchy checks (\fInbool\fP option).
.TP
.B -f
Use files 'booldata', 'dimcheckdata2' and 'dubcheckdata'
if present in the current working directory
instead of the standard ones from the library.
.TP
.B -g
Report gap errors between elements of the same group.
.TP
.B -t
Debugging option,
do not filter or merge error messages
for a non orthogonal layout.
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dimcheck2
checks the layers of a cell definition for all design rule errors.
Width, gap and overlap checks are performed
and eventually an hierarchy_check.
Gap errors between edges of the same group are
usually suppressed; use the -g option if this is not desired.
.PP
The program
.I dimcheck2
can be used after
.I exp.
.PP
Checking is carried out in three steps performed
by three subprograms,
which are called automatically.
First the subprogram
.I nbool
is called to produce the "bool_BN" files
and to perform an hierarchy_check.
The latter is only significant if the cell to check
has been expanded hierarchically.
After that the subprograms
.I dimcheck
and
.I dubcheck
are called which use these files, together with the
"LC_vln" files to do the actual checking for
width, gap and overlap errors.
The errors are reported on standard output.
.PP
If no cell_name is specified the names of the cells to be
checked will be read from the file "exp_dat".
.PP
The current working directory must be the project directory.
.AU "T.G.R. van Leuken, J. Fokkema, J. Liedorp"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/bin/nbool\fP
executable
.TP
\fCICDPATH/bin/dimcheck\fP
executable
.TP
\fCICDPATH/bin/dubcheck\fP
executable
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/TECHN/booldata\fP
(TECHN=technology directory)
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/TECHN/dimcheckdata2\fP
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/TECHN/dubcheckdata\fP
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/exp_dat\fP
names of cells to be checked
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/cell/LC_vln\fP
input files, LC=LayerCode
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/cell/bool_BN\fP
input files, BN=BooleanNr
.SH SEE ALSO
T.G.R. van Leuken, J. Liedorp "An Hierarchical and Technology Independent
Design Rule Checker", Delft University of Technology,
.br
autocheck(1ICD),
booldata(4ICD),
dimdata(4ICD),
dubdata(4ICD),
exp(1ICD),
nbool(1ICD)
.SH BUGS
It is understood that the design rules are consistent.
Error reporting is rather poor;
the kind of error (width, gap or overlap) is
reported together with the coordinates
of the two points between which the error occurred.
In case of non orthogonal layouts the errors reported
may be shifted a little from the place where they
occurred due to rounding errors.
