.TH FLATTEN 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
flatten - flatten the layout of a cell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flatten
[-L] [-dN] [-f file] [-h] [-n name] [-s] [-t] [-p] [-v] cell
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B -L
Flatten only LOCAL sub-cells.
.TP
\fB-d\fPN
Flatten depth (default N=1000)
.TP
\fB-f\fP file
Output to LDM file (no overwrite).
.TP
\fB-F\fP file
Output to LDM file (overwrite).
.TP
.B -h
Help messages (no processing).
.TP
\fB-n\fP name
New cell name (default ...flat).
.TP
.B -s
Silent mode.
.TP
.B -t
Flatten terminals of sub-cells.
.TP
.B -p
No terminal postfix (only if needed).
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I flatten
program flattens the hierarchical layout of a cell into the ICD database.
The new cell name is default ...flat.
If this cell name already exists it is updated (overwritten).
Take care not to overwrite an existing cell accidentely,
especial when using option \fB-n\fP.
Alternatively the layout of the flattend cell can be written to a LDM file.
.PP
Options may be combined.
Except after \fB-d\fP must be a number.
For options \fB-f\fP, \fB-F\fP and \fB-n\fP the next argument is taken.
Last argument must be the cell name.
.PP
The option \fB-t\fP adds all sub-cell terminals to the flattend top-cell,
it is default using the _subN postfix (N >= 1) for the terminal names.
If you don't want this, use option \fB-p\fP, then the postfix is only
added when the terminal is already found.
.PP
When a LDM file is specified on the command line,
you can best add the LDM postfix ".ldm".
.AU "S. de Graaf"
.SH LIMITATIONS
Sub-cell labels are not flattend.
.SH SEE ALSO
"The Geometrical Mask Layout Language LDM" - NELSIS user documentation.
.br
cldm(1ICD),
xldm(1ICD).
