.if n .po 0
.TH GETEPSLAY 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
getepslay - make a postscript file from a mask layout
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getepslay
[-vsbtTFr] [-w width | -h height | -l lambdascale]
.br
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ [-o masklist | -n masklist] [-p style | -P techfile] cellname
.de TB
.if n .TP 10n
.if t .TP 15n
.ie !''\\$2' .B "\\$1 \fI\\$2\fP"
.el          .B "\\$1"
..
.SH OPTIONS
.I Getepslay
understands the following options:
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B -r
Rotate the picture so that x-axis is along the long side of the paper.
.TP
.B -b
Include a bounding box around the layout.
.TP
.B -t
Plot terminals with a cross and the terminal name.
.TP
.B -T
Simulate transparency of the interconnect layers.
.TP
.B -F
Simulate full transparency of all layers.
Implies \fB-T\fP.
.TP
.B -s
Include symbolic masks. They are excluded by default.
.TP
.B -o masklist
Process only the masks in \fImasklist\fP.
\fIMasklist\fP is a comma- or blank-separated list of masknames.
.TP
.B -n masklist
Exclude the masks in \fImasklist\fP from processing.
.TP
.B -w width
Specifiy width of picture in cm.
.TP
.B -h height
Specifiy height of picture in cm.
.TP
.B -l lambdascale
Specifiy the lambda scale, i.e. the number of lambda's per centimeter.
.TP
.B -p style
Specify the file ``epslay.\fIstyle\fR'' in the appropriate
section of the Nelsis process library as the technology file.
The technology file defines the appearance of the plotted layout.
The default file is ``epslay.def''.
.TP
.B -P techfile
Specify another technology file.
.TP
.B -e
Assume the layout is already expanded,
do not run the makeboxl and makegln preprocessors.
.PP
In case more than one of the
.B -w,
.B -h
and
.B -l
options is used, the last setting overrides.
Similarly for
.B -p
and
.B -P,
and for
.B -o
and
.B -n.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I Getepslay
is a program that creates a postscript file from a layout,
whereby each mask is plotted with a particular stipple
pattern as specified in a technology file.
The file may then be printed on any postscript printer,
or included in a document created with,
for example,
TeX or troff.
.PP
The output is in the file \fIcellname\fP.eps.
.PP
The postscript produced is well behaved, and apart from a showpage
command, it is encapsulated postscript.
.PP
The default picture size is A4, minus some small margins.
.PP
To modify the appearance of the layout, the resulting postscript can be
edited.
Alternative technology files can also be specified by using
the
.B -P
or
.B -p
option.
.PP
Warning:
when using the \fB-T\fP or \fB-F\fP option,
the resulting output file can be much larger
than when not using one of these options.
For large designs, the output file can nearly double in size.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
exp -g flipflop
getepslay -P epstech.c3tu -w12 flipflop
.fi
.AU " N.P. van der Meijs"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/epslay.def\fP
default element definition file.
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/epslay.pro\fP
default postscript prolog file, common for all technologies.
.SH SEE ALSO
mplot (1ICD),
getepslay (4ICD).
