.TH GHOTI 1SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
ghoti - circuit purifier for extracted sea-of-gates layouts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ghoti
[-options] <cell_name>
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B <cell_name>
Nelsis circuit to be purified.
.TP
.B -h
Help: print list of options.
.TP
.B -c
Do not remove badly connected cmos transistors.
.TP
.B -i
Do not remove cmos isolation transistors.
.TP
.B -p
Do not remove badly connected resistors and capacitors.
.TP
.B -u
Also remove totally unconnected instances of any sort.
.TP
.B -s
Also remove partially unconnected instances of any sort.
.TP
.B -n <number>
Perform <number> preprocessing steps (defaults to 2).
.TP
.B -P
Do not join power and ground nets.
.TP
.B -q
Quiet option: print nothing except errors.
.TP
.B -z
Print ztatistics about hash table usage.
.TP
.B -r
Reduce series/parallel networks of transistors.
.TP
.B -o <out_name>
Write output to cell name.
.TP
.B -C
Do not require <cell_name> to start with a capital.
.TP
.B -D
Debug: print graph.
.TP
.B -M
Print memory usage.
.TP
.B -W
Debug: no write.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ghoti
is a netlist purifier,
it purifies the Nelsis circuit view of a cell.
It is used to remove unconnected transistors from a Sea-of-gates design
after the layout to circuit extraction with the \fIspace\fP(1ICD) program.
This is needed before starting an \fIsls\fP(ICD) simulation.

.SH EXAMPLE
To purify the circuit of the cell dcfclock use:

% ghoti -i dcfclock

.SH AUTHORS
Paul Stravers,
Patrick Groeneveld

.SH FILES
.ta 6c
proj_dir/image.seadif	(technology file)
