.TH GNARP 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
gnarp - perform an operation on the seadif database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnarp
[...options...] <operation>
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B <operation>
The operation to be done.
.TP
.B -l <layoutname>
For seadif layout name or regexp.
.TP
.B -c <circuitname>
For seadif circuit name or regexp (default: <layoutname>).
.TP
.B -f <functionname>
For seadif function name or regexp (default: <circuitname>).
.TP
.B -b <libraryname>
For seadif library name or regexp (default: current working directory name).
.TP
.B -L
For all seadif layout names (-l .*).
.TP
.B -C
For all seadif circuit names (-c .*).
.TP
.B -F
For all seadif function names (-f .*).
.TP
.B -B
For all seadif library names (-b .*).
.TP
.B -h
Print
.I help
screen and exit.
.TP
.B -p
Print seadif objects in parenthesized format.
.TP
.B -s
Silent mode, do not print results to stdout.
.TP
.B -w
Do not embed each regexp within ^ and $.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ta 8c
.I Gnarp
manipulate layouts, circuits or functions in the Seadif database.
Is used by ICELLS(1ICD).
.PP
The recognized <operation> on layouts is:
.TP
.I addCirports
For each Layport that has no equivalent Cirport create such an equivalent Cirport.
.PP
The recognized <operation>s on circuits are:
.TP
.I mkLibprim
Add the keyword "libprim" to the Status.
.TP
.I rmLibprim
Remove the keyword "libprim" from the Status.
.TP
.I showLibprim
Show the "libprim" status of the circuit.

.SH EXAMPLE
To perform operation "mkLibprim" to all circuits and functions of library "digilib8_93" use:

% gnarp -CFb digilib8_93 mkLibprim

.SH AUTHORS
P. Groeneveld,
P. Stravers

.SH FILES
.ta 8c
\fIlibrary\fP/seadif/sealib.sdf	(database file)

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ICELLS(1ICD)
