.de OP
\fB\\$1\fP\\fI\\$2\\fP\\$3
..
.TH HIGHLAY 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
highlay - high-light the layout of conductors and/or devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B highlay
[-npeoFvmidL -l mask -w width -c outcell]
[-N \fIn1,n2...\fP -P \fIp1,p2...\fP -E \fIe1,e2...\fP]
cell [namefile]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -n
Select nets.
.TP
.B -p
Select ports.
.TP
.B -e
Select devices (fets and bipolar transistors).
.TP
.B -L
High-light with the conductor masks
(default: all original masks
that are present at that position).
.TP
.B "-l \fImask\fP"
Use specified mask for high-lighting (default: all original masks
that are present at that position).
.TP
.B "-w \fIwidth\fP"
The width of an area with which a selected conductor
area should be extended (can only be used in
combination with the option -l, default is 0).
.TP
.B "-c \fIoutcell\fP"
Name of output cell (default: HIGH_OUT).
.TP
.B -o
Do not include the original cell as a sub-cell.
.TP
.B -F
Include the original cell at the same level.
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode. Print the nets, ports and devices that are selected.
.PP
The following options are only appropriate when using match results
(no namefile is specified).
.TP
.B -m
Select matching items.
.TP
.B -i
Select inconclusive items.
.TP
.B -d
Select deficient items.
.TP
.B "-N \fIn1,n2...\fP"
Select the nets that are part of groups \fIn1,n2...\fP.
.TP
.B "-P \fIp1,p2...\fP"
Select the ports that are part of groups \fIp1,p2...\fP.
.TP
.B "-E \fIe1,e2...\fP"
Select the devices that are part of groups \fIe1,e2...\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Highlay(1ICD)
is a program for high-lighting one or more (extracted) conductors
and/or devices in a layout-editor/viewer.
In order to use
.I highlay
for a particular cell, first run the layout-to-circuit extractor
.I space(1ICD)
for this cell using the option
.OP -x "" .
.PP
The conductors (nets/ports) and devices that are high-lighted
can be specified in two different ways:
(1) they are specified in a namefile, or
(2) they are selected from the output of the circuit comparison
program
.I match(1ICD).
.PP
When a namefile is specified,
the names of the nets, ports and/or devices
that are high-lighted are read from this file.
The names must be separated by tabs, spaces and/or newline characters.
For the devices, the database names must be used.
These are the names that are obtained when
.I xsls(1ICD)
or
.I xspice(ICD)
is used with the option
.OP -d "" ,
but without the prefix character.
Nets, ports and/or devices are selected for high-lighting according to
the use of the options
.OP -n "" ,
.OP -p ""
and/or
.OP -e "" .
.PP
When no namefile is specified,
.I highlay
will read output of the program
.I match
for the specified cell.
In that case, it will select nets, ports and/or devices
according to the use of the options
.OP -m "" ,
.OP -i "" ,
.OP -d "" ,
.OP -n "" ,
.OP -N "" ,
.OP -p "" ,
.OP -P "" ,
.OP -e
and/or
.OP -E "" .
A net, port or device is high-lighted if and only if it is selected by one
of the options
.OP -m "" ,
.OP -i ""
or
.OP -d ""
and by one of the options
.OP -n "" ,
.OP -N "" ,
.OP -p "" ,
.OP -P "" ,
.OP -e ""
or
.OP -E "" .
In order to obtain correct input for
.I highlay
from
.I match,
the latter program should be run using the option
.OP -edif "" .
.PP
.I Highlay
will generate
a new cell that contains (default)
the high-lighted parts of the specified cell,
plus a copy of the specified cell as a sub-cell.
The name of the new cell that is generated is (default) HIGH_OUT.
This name can be changed by using the option
.OP -c "" .
The nets, ports and/or devices that are selected
for high-lighting are (default) displayed in their original mask colors.
An alternative mask for high-lighting can be specified by using
the option
.OP -l "" .
.SH NOTE
Note that names that are printed in spice descriptions as
in_1_ in_2_, might be known in the layout database - and must
therefore be referred to in the namefile of
.I highlay
- as in[1] in[2].
.SH EXAMPLE
An example of a namefile "\fClatch.hil\fP" for
.I highlay
is as follows:
.nf
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
vdd
a1
a2
_T2
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
.fi
This namefile may be used to obtain a cell HIGH_OUT in which
the nets vdd, a1 and a2 and the device _T1
of cell latch are high-lighted, as follows.
.nf
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
$ highlay -n -e latch latch.hil
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE2
Name wildcards can also be used in the namefile.
For example to select all names:
.nf
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
*
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
For example to select names "grp1" to "grp12":
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
grp*
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
For example to select only names "grp11" and "grp12":
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
grp??
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
.fi
Note that only one '*' may be used in a name.
Characters behind the '*' are not supported.
.AU "A.J. van Genderen"
.SH SEE ALSO
.I match(1ICD),
.I space(1ICD).
