.TH ICDMAN 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
icdman - search for keyword or print ICD manual page
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icdman
-k keyword
.br
.B icdman
[section] entry
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -k
Search for \fIkeyword\fP in file 'whatis'.
.TP
.I section
Search only for manual entry in specified section.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Icdman
is a program that accesses information from the on-line IC Design manual
in a man(1)-like fashion.
.PP
With the -k option manual information can be searched for by keyword.
.I Icdman
prints out a one-line synopsis of each manual entry whose listing
in the 'whatis' database contains the caseless \fIkeyword\fP.
.PP
When the -k option is not specified
.I icdman
searches for a manual entry, specified by the title \fIentry\fP,
and displays it on the terminal screen.
If a section number is specified
.I icdman
looks in that section for \fIentry\fP.
If section is omitted,
.I icdman
searches all sections of the on-line manual.
.PP
Help about the following sections is currently available:
.PP
.if n .ta 16
.if t .ta 1.5i
.nf
sectionnr:	1. User Commands and Sys. Administration
	3. Sea-of-Ocean Functions
	4. File Formats
	5. DMI and LDMC Functions
.SH NOTES
You can set the environment variable PAGER to use another pager program.
The default pager is
.I less
(if found),
else
.I more
is used.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% icdman icdman
% icdman -k import
% icdman dsui
% icdman 4 maskdata
.fi
.AU "S. de Graaf" "icdman"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/man/cat[1-5]\fP
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/man/whatis\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
less(1),
man(1),
more(1).
