.TH ICELLS 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
ICELLS - install the cell libraries for the ocean process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ICELLS
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I ICELLS
script is a front-end to the real ocean process
.I ICELLS
script.
The real script is to be sourced by the
.I ICELLS
script.
It compiles and installs all source libraries for the ocean process in the global cell library tree.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARS
.TP
ICDPATH
The full path to the place where the Ocean & Nelsis tree lives.
This environment variable must be set!
.TP
OCEANPROCESS
The name of the ocean process and image to use,
e.g. "fishbone", "gatearray" or "octagon".
The default process is "fishbone".
.TP
BINLIBS
Is set to ICDPATH/share/lib/celllibs/OCEANPROCESS.
This variable is used by the real script and is not an enviroment variable.
It is the path to the directory containing the binary version of the libraries.
.TP
SRCLIBS
Is set to ICDPATH/share/lib/celllibs/OCEANPROCESS/src.
This variable is used by the real script and is not an enviroment variable.
It is the path to the directory containing the ascii version of the libraries,
as well as the template directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% ICELLS
======= creating project BINLIBS/primitives =======
======= copying source files to BINLIBS/primitives =======
======= compiling and installing BINLIBS/primitives =======
\&...
======= running "gnarp -CFb primitives mkLibprim" =======
\&...
======= creating project BINLIBS/digilib8_93 =======
======= copying source files to BINLIBS/digilib8_93 =======
======= importing library primitives =======
======= compiling and installing BINLIBS/digilib8_93 =======
\&...
======= running "gnarp -CFb digilib8_93 mkLibprim" =======
\&...
======= creating project BINLIBS/g_digilib5_99 =======
\&...
\&...
======= creating project BINLIBS/analib8_00 =======
\&...
\&...
======= creating project BINLIBS/g_analib8_00 =======
\&...
\&...
======= creating project BINLIBS/ringlib3_05 =======
\&...
\&...
======= creating project BINLIBS/bonding11_93 =======
\&...
\&...
======= ICELLS: program finished =======
%
.SH AUTHORS
P. Groeneveld,
P. Stravers
.SH FILES
.nf
ICDPATH/share/lib/process/processlist
SRCLIBS/ICELLS         # the ocean process real ICELLS script
SRCLIBS/*              # place for ascii version of the libraries
BINLIBS/*              # place for the to create binary libraries
.SH SEE ALSO
gnarp(1ICD),
mkpr(1ICD),
mkopr(1ICD).
