.TH IMPCELL 1ICD "3/30/87"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
impcell - import cell into the current project
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBimpcell\fP \fB-c|f|l\fP \fB-a|i|r\fP [-p prefix] project
.br
\fBimpcell\fP \fB-c|f|l\fP project remote [local]
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I project
Absolute or relative path of the library project.
.TP
.I remote
Name of the cell of the library project.
.TP
.I local
Name of the cell in the current project (alias),
if not specified remote name is taken.
.TP
.I prefix
Prefix to be prepended to the remote name to generate a local name.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
Import cell in the circuit view.
.TP
.B -f
Import cell in the floorplan view.
.TP
.B -l
Import cell in the layout view.
.TP
.B -a
Import all cells from \fIproject\fP.
.TP
.B -i
Import cells interactively. This option implies the -a option,
however, the user is prompted for each cell found in \fIproject\fP.
Legal replies are 'y', 'n' and 'q', to respectively import or not import
a cell or to quit the program (default is: not import).
If 'y' is replied then the user is prompted for an alias name.
The default name (shown between brackets) is selected
when just <return> is entered.
If the cell cannot be imported then the default local name is cleared
and another local name can be specified,
or the cell can be skipped by entering just <return>.
.TP
.B -r
Import all root cells from \fIproject\fP.
.TP
.B -p
Specifies that the next argument should be used as a prefix that will be
prepended to the remote cell name to generate a local name.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Impcell
imports cells of library projects into the current project.
The program checks if this is a legal transaction.
If no parameters are specified the program reads from stdin.
Note that the order of the parameters for stdin is reverse
(i.e. local name, remote name, project).
The current working directory must be a legal project directory.
Cells can only be imported from library projects that have previously been
added to the "projlist".
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ impcell -l ../other_proj flip_flop
$ impcell -c ../../projects/logic_gates nand7 fast_nand
$ impcell -l < list_of_cells_to_be_imported
$ impcell -ir ../other_proj -cf
$ impcell -al -p fast_ ../other_proj
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
S. de Graaf
.br
P. van der Wolf
.br
P. Bingley
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCproj_dir/\fIview\fP/impcelllist\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
addproj(1ICD).
