.TH MAKEBOXL 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
makeboxl - expand a cell linearly to boxes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makeboxl
[-Hh] [-L] [-cL] [-d[N]] [-v] [-wXl,Xr,Yb,Yt] [-Ii] cell
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -H
Perform a mixed linear/hierarchical expansion, i.e.
expand only the sub-cells that are macros.
.TP
.B -h
Pseudo hierarchical mode, all cell calls are preserved in the netlist.
.TP
.B -L
Expand only Local cells.
.TP
\fB-c\fPL
Select check level 'L' (positive integer value).
The check level specifies the level of the lowest
cell which is included in the expansion
(default: all cells are included (maximum level)).
.br
Level 0 means, only the bounding box and terminals of the top cell.
Level 1 means, the primitives of the top cell and only
the bounding boxes and terminals of the called cells.
.TP
\fB-d\fP[N]
Discretization, 'N' samples per lambda (default: 8).
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode.
.TP
\fB-w\fPXl,Xr,Yb,Yt
Select a partial expansion window.
The window coordinates (integer values) must be
specified as one argument (no blanks are allowed).
Xl,Xr,Yb,Yt are respectively the left and right X-coordinates,
and bottom and top Y-coordinates
(default: the expansion window is the cell bounding box).
.TP
.B -I
Skip all fishbone images for Sea-of-Gates.
.TP
.B -i
No automatic image mode for Sea-of-Gates.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Makeboxl
takes the internal database description of the cell and converts it to boxes.
.sp
Unless the option -H is used,
.I makeboxl
expands the cell \fIlinearly\fP,
i.e. the cell and all lower cells
up to an user controlled limit to boxes.
If an expansion window is specified,
only the boxes in that window are expanded.
.sp
The cell argument is the cell name and must be the last argument.
The current working directory must be the project directory.
.I Makeboxl
creates a special file "exp_dat",
which contains the name of the cell which is expanded.
.sp
In the pseudo hierarchical mode (option -h)
the layout is expanded but also cell calls are preserved in the netlist.
.sp
The circuit extractor space uses some new streams for back-annotation.
Use option -b to discard the generation of the streams: tidpos, tidnam and anno_exp.
.sp
.I Makeboxl
automatically detects the usage of Sea-of-Gates images.
Be sure that the directory "seadif" exists.
In this mode, makeboxl shall only use the highest level image(s) and
skip all lower level images.
Use option -I to skip all images.
It works with the reserved instance name "IMAGE".
This instance name may only be used for calls to image subcells and
must be used for all this calls.
If the image is on the first level,
makeboxl shall try to merge the boxes of the image to reduce its output.
Use option -i to put off the image detection.
In that case the images are expanded as all other subcells.
.sp
.I Makeboxl
reads the file "is_macro" for macro status detection in hier_mode (-H).
In this mode the subcells are not expanded, except the macro status is set.
.I Makeboxl
uses this file also for the list of allowed masks.
Default, makeboxl shall expand all masks for all cells, except for devices
which are not expanded (existence of file "devmod").
If a cell contains an "is_macro" file, and this file contains a list
of masknames between '+' signs (i.e. "+in+ins+"), only these masks are expanded.
.br
Note that new projects with xcontrol are not more using the files "is_macro"
and "devmod".
In that case,
the cell status is controlled by the program \fIxcontrol\fP.
.AU "J. Annevelink, S. de Graaf"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/.dmrc\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/seadif/\fP
(input directory, image mode detection)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/annotations\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/box\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/mc\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/nor\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/term\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/info\fP
(in/output file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/spec\fP
(output file, flat_mode)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/pseudo_hier\fP
(output file, -h)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/tid\fP
(output file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/tidpos\fP
(output file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/tidnam\fP
(output file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/anno_exp\fP
(output file)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/LC_bxx\fP
(output files) LC=LayerCode
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/t_LC_bxx\fP
(output files)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/\fIcell\fP/LC_nxx\fP
(output files, no discr.)
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/exp_dat\fP
(output file)
.SH SEE ALSO
device(1ICD),
exp(1ICD),
macro(1ICD),
makegln(1ICD),
makevln(1ICD),
space(1ICD),
xcontrol(1ICD).
