.TH MAKEGLN 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
makegln - create a gln representation of a layout
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makegln
[-vDc] [-o masklist] [-n masklist] [-m maxmem] cell [...]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -v
verbose mode.
.TP
.B "-o\fImasklist\fR"
process only the masks in \fImasklist\fP.
\fIMasklist\fP is a comma- or blank-separated list of masknames.
.TP
.B "-n\fImasklist\fR"
exclude the masks in \fImasklist\fP from processing.
.TP
.B "-m\fImaxmem\fR"
use \fImaxmem\fR (default 1) MByte of main memory for sorting of gln edges.
.TP
.B "-D"
delete the bxx and nxx files (output of makebox) when ready.
.TP
.B "-c"
do not compress the temporary files (less cpu time, more disk space).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Makegln
creates a non-vertical line segment representation
(gln representation)
of the layout of the specified cells,
as input for the programs
.I space (1ICD)
and
.I mplot (1ICD)
and
.I getepslay (1ICD).
Normally,
.I makegln
is automatically invoked by the programs above.
However,
makegln can also be run directly
or trough
.I exp (1ICD)
with the ``-g'' option.
.PP
The input of makegln is a set of nxx and bxx files
as produced by
.I makeboxl (1ICD)
or
.I makeboxh (1ICD).
.PP
In order to sort the output,
.I makegln
uses a directory where it stores temporary data.
The default directory for this is selected from the
list of directories /tmp and /usr/tmp, whichever has more space available.
Using the environment variable SPACE_TMPDIR it is possible
to specify an alternative list of directories,
separated by the character ':' (e.g. /tmp:/usr/tmp:/user/john/tmp).
.PP
.SH LIMITATIONS
The current version of makegln can only handle 45-degree layout.
.AU "N.P. van der Meijs"
.SH SEE ALSO
exp(1ICD),
mplot (1ICD),
getepslay (1ICD),
space (1ICD).
