.TH MAKEDELA 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
makedela - auxiliary program for substrate resistance extraction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makedela
[-01Ddenvwx] [-E file] [-m maxmem] cell [...]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -0
using sub_res interpolation method 0.
.TP
.B -1
using sub_res interpolation method 1.
.TP
.B -D
delete the input file "cont_aln" from the database when ready.
.TP
.BI -E file
use
.I file
as the element definition file
(default "space.def.t" in the ICD process library).
.TP
.B -d
print debugging information.
.TP
.B -e
eliminate substrate node conductances.
.TP
.B -n
no decrease sub_res method.
.TP
.B -v
verbose mode.
.TP
.B -w
generate information for \fIspace\fP for drawing the Delaunay triangulation.
.TP
.B -x
generate a PIC representation of the Delaunay triangulation in
a file "\fIcellname\fP.pic".
.TP
.B "-m\fImaxmem\fR"
use \fImaxmem\fR (default 1) MByte of main memory for sorting of edges.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Makedela
is an auxiliary program for
.I space (1ICD)
that is used for fast substrate resistance extraction.
.br
.I Makedela
uses a Delaunay triangulation to calculate the distances between the different substrate contacts.
.br
.I Makedela
uses \fIselfsubres\fP and \fIcoupsubres\fP data (as specified in a \fIspace\fP technology file)
to calculate the substrate contact conductance values.
.br
.I Makedela
takes as input line segments from a stream "cont_aln"
and contact positions + area / perimeter data from a stream "cont_pos"
(produced by \fIspace\fP during a first pass)
and produces as output a stream called "subres"
(read by \fIspace\fP during a second pass).
.I Makedela
is automatically invoked by
.I space (1ICD)
when using the option \fB-b\fP
for fast substrate resistance extraction.
.PP
.AU "A.J. van Genderen"
.SH SEE ALSO
space (1ICD).
