.TH MKEPR 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mkepr - make an extended ocean project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkepr
project
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I project
Absolute or relative path of the project to be created.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkepr
is a symbolic link to the ICELLS(1ICD) script.
The
.I ICELLS
script is a front-end to the real
.I mkepr
script.
This script is to be sourced by the
.I ICELLS
script.
It creates a NELSIS project directory for the OCEANPROCESS (default "fishbone")
and imports the same libraries as mkopr(1ICD) into that project.
And it imports also the "exlib" (expert) library into that project.
The libraries must first be installed with the script ICELLS(1ICD).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARS
.TP
ICDPATH
The full path to the place where the Ocean & Nelsis tree lives.
This environment variable must be set!
.TP
OCEANPROCESS
The name of the ocean process and image to use,
e.g. "fishbone", "gatearray" or "octagon".
The default process is "fishbone".
.TP
BINLIBS
Is set to ICDPATH/share/lib/celllibs/OCEANPROCESS.
This variable is used by the real script and is not an enviroment variable.
It is the path to the directory containing the binary version of the libraries.
.TP
SRCLIBS
Is set to ICDPATH/share/lib/celllibs/OCEANPROCESS/src.
This variable is used by the real script and is not an enviroment variable.
It is the path to the directory containing the ascii version of the libraries,
as well as the template directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% mkepr myproject
------- creating fishbone project myproject -------
------- importing primitives -------
------- importing exlib8_93 -------
------- importing digilib8_93 -------
------- importing analib8_00 -------
------- importing bonding11_93 -------
------- copying default config files -------

\&...done. Enjoy your new project "myproject" !!!
% cd myproject
.SH AUTHORS
P. Groeneveld,
P. Stravers
.SH FILES
.nf
ICDPATH/share/lib/process/processlist
SRCLIBS/mkepr          # the ocean process real mkepr script
SRCLIBS/template/*     # place of default config files
BINLIBS/*              # place of imported libraries
.SH SEE ALSO
ICELLS(1ICD),
mkpr(1ICD),
mkopr(1ICD).
