.TH MKPR 1ICD "8/28/86"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mkpr - make a project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkpr
[-p process] [-l lambda] [-u project] project
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I project
Absolute or relative path of the project to be created.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIprocess\fP
Create project for the specified process.
The \fIprocess\fP argument can be
a process \fIname\fP,
a process \fInumber\fP or
a process \fIdirectory\fP.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlambda\fP
Use the specified lambda value (in microns) for the project.
.TP
\fB-u\fP \fIproject\fP
Use existing project (path) for parameter defaults.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkpr
creates a project (for the latest release) with the specified name.
The argument may contain slashes (/), in which case the first part (up to the last /)
has to be a legal UNIX path to a directory in which the new project directory
will be created.
When the project directory exists, then
.I mkpr
tries to turn the existing directory into a project directory.
This directory may not already contain any project files.
.PP
Default,
.I mkpr
tries to use the information of the current project (if existing).
Use option \fB-u\fP, to use a specific project instead.
This information is read from the ".dmrc" file.
When this file has a bad format, no information is used.
.PP
To connect the project to a process,
.I mkpr
first tries to use the process
that is specified using the option \fB-p\fP,
second the value of an existing current project.
Next,
.I mkpr
tries to use the environment variable ICDPROCESS (if defined).
Otherwise,
the user has to interactively specify the process.
.PP
To define a lambda value
(the smallest grid for layout design)
for the project,
.I mkpr
first tries to use the value that is specified
using the option \fB-l\fP,
second the value of an existing current project.
Next,
.I mkpr
tries to read the value from a file `default_lambda'
that is present in the process directory.
Otherwise,
the user has to interactively specify the value for lambda.
.PP
.I Mkpr
creates standard entries in the project directory, that is,
view directories with empty celllists, a file ".dmrc" and a file "projlist".
The entry ".dmrc" contains process information such as the process id
and the value for lambda.
The entry ".dmxdata" contains \fIxcontrol\fP(1ICD) information.
The entry "projlist" is intended to contain a list of paths to projects
that may be
used as libraries for the design that will be created in the new project.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.I Mkpr
requires write permission in the parent directory.
.I Mkpr
does not use the environment variable CWD.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% mkpr my_project
% mkpr -l 0.1 my_project2
% mkpr -p scmos_n -l 0.1 ../../projects/new_project
% mkpr -p /usr/cacd/lib/process/scmos_n -l 0.1 other_project
% mkpr -u other_project other_project2
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
P. van der Wolf, A.J. van Genderen, S. de Graaf
.SH FILES
.TP 30
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/processlist\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCproject/.dmrc\fP
(output file)
.TP
\fCproject/.dmxdata\fP
(output file)
.TP
\fCproject/projlist\fP
(output file)
.TP
\fCproject/\fIview\fP/celllist\fP
(output file)
.TP
\fCproject/\fIview\fP/impcelllist\fP
(output file)
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIname\fP/default_lambda\fP
(opt. input file)
.TP
\fCICDPROCESS/default_lambda\fP
(opt. input file)
.SH SEE ALSO
addproj(1ICD),
getproc(1ICD),
rmpr(1ICD),
xcontrol(1ICD).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion
.I mkpr
returns exit code 0.
Otherwise, a diagnostic is printed and 1 is returned.
