.TH MKSLS 1ICD "Nelsis Release 3"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mksls - update nelsis database from *.sls and *.fun sources
.SH SYNOPSIS
mksls [-h] [-m] [topcell]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIMksls\fP searches the current project directory for *.sls and *.fun files
that have been changed since the last time they where compiled. It then
calls \fIcsls\fP or \fIcfun\fP, whatever's appropriate, to compile
a source file that is out of date. If \fItopcell\fP is specified,
\fImksls\fP calls \fIsls_exp\fP for this top level cell and then executes
``sls topcell topcell.cmd''.  \fIMksls\fP aborts if an error occurs in any
of the subprocesses it spawns.
.SH OPTIONS
.nf
   -h    Print a help screen, then exit.
   -m    Print a script on stdout that can be processed by
         \fImake\fP(1) to obtain the required recompilations,
         then exit.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The compiler \fIcsls\fP requires sls source files to be compiled in a
bottom up fashion. (You can get around this with the aid of the "external"
statement, see the Sls User Manual.) Consequently, the order in which
\fIcsls\fP is called sometimes is important. \fIMksls\fP has limited
support for this restriction, see the entry "mk.slsfiles" in the FILES
section below.

\fIMksls\fP does not really know what a Nelsis database looks like. It
stores timestamps of the compilation dates in its own private directory
"mk.dates", see the entry "mk.dates" in the FILES section below. As a
consequence, if you compile a file "by hand" --for instance by typing
"csls myfile.sls"-- then the mk.dates directory does not get updated and
\fImksls\fP still assumes that "myfile.sls" needs a recompile. Fortunately,
this never causes the database to be out of date, but of course it may waste
a little cpu time. The bottom line: use \fImksls\fP consistently.
.SH FILES
The following files provide the user of \fImksls\fP with a way to override
\fImksls\fP's default actions and arguments for subprocesses. None of these
files is obligatory. Basically you can forget about them.

.if n .ta 40
.if t .ta 3.2i
.nf
 mk.slsfiles      This file contains the names of the
                  files that need to be processed by
                  \fIcsls\fP. The order in which the
                  filenames appear in mk.slsfiles is the
                  order that \fImksls\fP obeys while
                  spawning subprocesses for recompilation.
                  Default is "*.sls" (alphabetical order).
 mk.funfiles      This file contains the names of the
                  files that need be processed by
                  \fIcfun\fP. The order in which the
                  filenames appear in mk.funfiles is the
                  order that \fImksls\fP obeys while
                  spawning subprocesses for recompilation.
                  Default is "*.fun".
 mk.topcell       Contains the name of the top level cell.
                  Default is the cell name supplied on the
                  command line, see the description above.
 mk.slsargs       Contains extra args for \fIcsls\fP.
                  Defaults to "-s".
 mk.funargs       Contains extra args for \fIcfun\fP.
                  The default is "-s -Cg -CI$INCLUDE",
                  where $INCLUDE is substituted with the
                  contents of the file mk.include (see
                  below).
 mk.expargs       Contains the argument to \fIsls_exp\fP.
                  Defaults to "-g".
 mk.include       Contains directory names to be searched
                  for include files. Include files must
                  have a suffix ".h".  The default is to
                  have no include directories.
 mk.dates         This is the directory that mksls creates
                  to keep track of the time a file was
                  last processed. If you remove this
                  directory --or entries in it--
                  \fImksls\fP assumes that the missing
                  timestamp is the beginning of the epoch,
                  thus enforcing (re)compilation of that
                  particular file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
 \fIMksls\fP inspects the following environment variables:

 SLS_MKDB         The program to call when a *.sls file is
                  out of date. Default is "csls".
 FUNC_MKDB        The program to call when a *.fun file is
                  out of date. Default is "cfun".
                  Commonly, this is set to "dofunc", a
                  front-end to cfun that enables
                  debugging of the functional sources with
                  a source-level debugger.
 SLS_EXP          The program called to expand the top
                  level cell. Default is "sls_exp".

.SH SEE ALSO
csls(1ICD), cfun(1ICD), make(1).
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Stravers
