.TH NBOOL 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
nbool - perform boolean operations on layout masks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "nbool [-c|-n] [-f] [cell_name]"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
Check for hierarchical compostion errors,
this is the default mode of operation.
.TP
.B -n
Do not check for hierarchical compostion errors.
.TP
.B -f
Use 'booldata' from the current working directory as
input_file in which the layercombinations are specified
instead of the standard one from the library.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nbool
performs boolean operations on vln_files.
If no option or the "-c" option is given, the
program also checks for
hierarchical composition errors
such as
overlap of layers of different cells without the presence of terminals.
Use the "-n" option to turn this mode of operation off.
.PP
The boolean functions,
which are performed,
are specified in file "booldata" in
directory "ICDPATH/share/lib/process".
.br
A boolean processing number,
as specified in the file "booldata",
is appended to the corresponding output file "bool_".
.PP
If no cell_name is given the cells given in file "exp_dat"
are processed.
.PP
The current working directory must be the project directory.
.PP
The
.I nbool
program is normally not called directly by the user,
but it is used by the
.I dimcheck2
program.
.AU "T.G.R. van Leuken, J. Fokkema"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/exp_dat\fP
names of the cells to be processed
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/TECHN/booldata\fP
input, TECHN=technology name
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/cell/LC_vln\fP
input, LC=LayerCode
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/layout/cell/bool_BN\fP
input - output, BN=Boolean Nr.
.SH SEE ALSO
exp(1ICD),
dimcheck2(1ICD),
makevln(1ICD),
booldata(4ICD)
