.TH NELSEA 1SDF "THE SEADIF PROGRAMMERS MANUAL"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
nelsea - nelsis to seadif and seadif to nelsis converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nelsea
[-options] [<cell_name>]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B <cell_name>
Nelsis cell to be converted.
.TP
.B [no argument]
Convert everything in celllist (implies no \fB-r\fP).
.SH "options to control the direction of the conversion:"
.TP
.B [default]
Convert from nelsis into seadif.
.TP
.B -r
Reverse conversion: convert from seadif into nelsis.
.SH "options to control what should be converted:"
.TP
.B -L
Convert layout view only (default: do both).
.TP
.B -C
Convert circuit view only (default: do both).
.TP
.B -m <map_file>
Convert the list in <mapfile> (implies no arguments).
.TP
.B -f <sdf_fun>
Set seadif function name (default: <cell_name>).
.TP
.B -c <sdf_cir>
Set seadif circuit name (default: <cell_name>).
.TP
.B -l <sdf_lay>
Set seadif layout name (default: <cell_name>).
.TP
.B -a
Do not make or use seadif cell Aliases.
.TP
.B -H
Convert <cell_name> only (default: hierarchical).
.SH "options related to nelsis:"
.TP
.B -i
Make the nelsis cell without the basic image.
.TP
.B -v
Write vias as model calls instead of boxes.
.TP
.B -F
Write placement also in floorplan view.
.TP
.B -x <x_size>
Force horizontal array size to x_size (>= 1).
.TP
.B -y <y_size>
Force vertical array size to y_size (>= 1).
.TP
.B -E <list>
Exclude the objects in <list> from being read.
Example: -E tmv13  leaves terminals, MC's vias and layers 1 and 3.
.SH "misc. options:"
.TP
.B -p
Print seadif environment for project and quit.
.TP
.B -M
Create an empty template mapfile only.
.TP
.B -d <libname>
Seadif library name (default: 'Oplib').
.TP
.B -V
Verbose parsing of image file: print all unknown keywords.
.TP
.B -h
Help: print list of options.
.TP
.B -q
Quiet option: print nothing.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nelsea
is a program that convert data between the Nelsis and
the Ocean Sea-of-Gates database.

.SH EXAMPLE
To produce the nelsis layout of cell nand2 use:

% nelsea -i nand2

.SH AUTHORS
Paul Stravers,
Patrick Groeneveld

.SH FILES
.ta 6c
proj_dir/image.seadif	(technology file)
