.TH NSPICE 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
nspice, nspice_pp, nspice_bs - encapsulated spice simulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nspice
cell commandfile
.PP
.B nspice_pp
cell commandfile
.PP
.B nspice_bs
cell
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nspice
is the encapsulated spice simulator that performs a \fIspice\fP\|(1ICD)
analysis for a circuit cell that is present in the database,
using a commandfile with \fIspice\fP and/or \fIsls\fP\|(1ICD) commands.
.I Nspice
consists of a unix shell-script
that extracts a circuit cell from the database using \fIxspice\fP\|(1ICD),
converts a commandfile with \fIspice\fP and/or \fIsls\fP commands
to a spice commandfile using \fInspice_pp\fP,
runs \fIspice\fP,
and finally executes
.I nspice_bs
to back-substitute node numbers in the output file by their
corresponding names as specified in the database.
The output of
.I nspice
is found in a file called "\fIcell\fP.ana".
.PP
.B nspice_pp:
The program
.I nspice_pp
converts, for a particular cell (first program argument),
a commandfile with \fIspice\fP and/or \fIsls\fP commands (second program argument)
to a spice commandfile.
In the inputfile nodes may be referred to by their names as specified in the database.
The output of the program is sent to \fIstdout\fP.
The conversion is executed
by using information from a spice network description
that is present in the file "\fIcell\fP.spc".
This file is typically extracted from the database using
.I xspice
with the options \fB-hilmf\fP.
This will generate a file "\fIcell\fP.spc" with a full (hierarchical)
description of the cell, including the appropriate transistor models,
terminals for n-bulk and/or p-bulk connections, and a name translation
table that translates node numbers into node names as used
in the database.
To reduce the number of nodes in the spice network description
the use of the options \fB-xy\fP [ \fB-z\fP name ] is further recommended
(see manual page of \fIxspice\fP).
.ie t .sp 0.5
.el .sp 1
All
.I sls
commands that are allowed with the
.I sls
simulator (see "SLS: Switch-Level Simulator User's Manual")
may be used in the commandfile of \fInspice_pp\fP.
However the ones that are translated into spice commands are the following:
The "\fBset\fP" commands in the commandfile are translated
into piecewise linear voltage sources that are connected
to the relevant input nodes of the network.
If ``\fBoption level=3\fP'' is specified,
sls "\fBplot\fP" commands are translated
into ``\fB.print tran\fP \fInode1\fP \fInode2\fP ...'' cards,
and a transient analysis card will be placed in the outputfile
that specifies a simulation from t=0 till t=t_end,
where t_end is given by ``simperiod * sigunit'' or otherwise - if simperiod
is not specified - by the time of the last input signal transition.
The value of tstep
in the ``\fB.tran\fP'' card should explicitly be defined with the keyword
.B tstep
in the commandfile (see below).
.ie t .sp 0.5
.el .sp 1
The other information that is allowed in the commandfile should be specified
in the following way:
.nf
.in +0.5c
.ft C

*%

\&... (1) translation information ...

*%

\&... (2) direct spice commands ...

*%

.ft
.in
.fi
The separators '*%' should be placed at the beginning of each line.
The first part consists of translation information that is used
to translate sls commands (if any) into spice commands.
It may consist of zero or more of the following lines:
.nf
.in +0.5c
.ft C

tstep   <real>
tstart  <real>
uic
trise   <real>
tfall   <real>
vhigh   <real>
vlow    <real>

.ft
.in
.fi
The field <real> denotes a specification of a real value.
It may optionally have a scale factor 'G' (1e9), 'M' (1e6), 'k'
(1e3), 'm' (1e-3), 'u' (1e-6), 'n' (1e-9), 'p' (1e-12) or 'f' (1e-15).
The variable
.B tstep
specifies the value of tstep as used for transient analysis.
This value should be specified when ``\fBoption level=3\fP'' is used with the
sls commands (see above).
The variable
.B tstart
optionally specifies
the start time for the transient analysis card.
If the keyword
.B uic
is used, this keyword will be added to the ``\fB.tran\fP'' card.
The variables
.B trise
and
.B tfall
respectively specify the rise and fall time of the input signals
(default: trise = tfall = tstep).
The variables
.B vhigh
and
.B vlow
respectively specify the voltages that correspond to the high-state and the
low-state of the input signals (default: vhigh = 5 and vlow = 0).
For the x-state a voltage of ``(vhigh + vlow) / 2'' is used.
.ie t .sp 0.5
.el .sp 1
In the second part of the spice information,
direct spice commands may be specified.
These commands are directly copied to the output, however with
node names that are specified between quotes translated
to their corresponding node numbers.
E.g. ``\fB.ic v("out")=5v\fP'' might be translated into ``\fB.ic v(12)=5v\fP''.
If no sls commands are used, this part of the commandfile
- beside the information that is extracted with
.I xspice
- will contain all the information
that is necessary for the spice simulation.
.ie t .sp 0.5
.el .sp 1
An example of a commandfile with only
.I spice
commands is given below:
.br
.nf
.in +0.5c
.ft C

*%
*%
vphi1 "phi1" 0 pulse (5v 0v 29.4ns 0.6ns 0.6ns 29.4ns 60ns)
vphi2 "phi2" 0 pulse (0v 5v 29.4ns 0.6ns 0.6ns 29.4ns 60ns)
vvdd "vdd" 0 5v
vin "in" 0 pulse (5v 0v 29.4ns 0.6ns)
\&.tran 0.2n 120n
\&.print tran v("phi1") v("phi2") v("1") v("2") v("3")
\&.print tran v("4") v("in") v("out") v("out_inv")
\&.options nomod
\&.options limpts=601
\&.options cptime=100
\&.ic v("3")=0 v("out")=5
*%

.ft
.in
.fi
.ie t .sp 0.5
.el .sp 1
An example of a commandfile with mixed
.I sls
and
.I spice
commands is as follows:
.br
.nf
.in +0.5c
.ft C

set phi1 = (h*30 l*30)*~
set phi2 = (l*30 h*30)*~
set vdd  = h
set vss  = l
set in   = h*30 l
option level = 3
option simperiod = 120
option sigunit = 1n
option outacc  = 10p
plot phi1 phi2 1 2 3 4 in out out_inv

/*

*%
tstep 0.2n
trise 0.6n
tfall 0.6n
*%
\&.options nomod
\&.options limpts=601
\&.options cptime=100
\&.ic v("3")=0 v("out")=5
*%

*/

.ft
.in
.fi
(Note that the spice information is placed between sls comment signs
("/*" and "*/") so as to allow to use the same inputfile for
an sls simulation.)
.PP
.B nspice_bs:
The program
.I nspice_bs
back-substitutes node numbers by node names
in a spice output file for a cell (specified as argument).
This is  done according to a name translation table that should
be present in the "\fIcell\fP.spc" file.
The name of the output file must be "\fIcell\fP.ana".
.I Nspice_bs
will only back-substitute node numbers that are in the header of
a transient analysis table.
.PP
The
.I nspice
unix-shell script has the following form:
.PP
.nf
.in +0.5c
.ft C
# xspice: always use options -hilf;
#       the use of options -xy [ -z name ] is recommended
xspice -hilf -xy $1
nspice_pp $1 $2 >> $1.spc
spice $1.spc > $1.ana
if nspice_bs $1
then
    exit 0
else
    exit 1
fi
# eof
.ft
.in
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft C
$ nspice latch latch.cmd
.ft
.AU "A.J. van Genderen, S. de Graaf"
.SH FILES
.TP 15
\fCcommandfile\fP
input file
.TP
\fC\fIcell\fP.spc\fP
generated input file for spice
.TP
\fC\fIcell\fP.axa\fP
temporary file
.TP
\fC\fIcell\fP.ana\fP
output file
.SH SEE ALSO
sls(1ICD),
xspice(1ICD),
spice(1ICD),
simeye(1ICD),
.br
User's Guide for SPICE, Univ. of California at Berkeley,
.br
SLS: Switch-Level Simulator User's Manual.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Nspice_pp
and
.I nspice_bs
send their diagnostics to
.I stderr.
Spice diagnostics are found in the output file "\fIcell\fP.ana".
