.TH RMDB 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rmdb - remove cell parts of an ICD database project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmdb
[\fB-aifv\fP]
[\fB-c\fP \fIcellname\fP]
[\fB-p\fP \fIproject\fP]
[layout]
[circuit]
[floorplan]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
Remove
.I all
cells of all views, if not further restricted by the
.B -c
option or one or more view specifications.
.TP
.B -i
Clean also
.I impcelllist
of views.
Not allowed in combination with the
.B -c
option.
.TP
.B -f
Use
.I force
mode: no confirmations are asked.
.TP
.B -v
Use
.I verbose
mode.
.TP
.B -c
Remove
.I cell
with name <cellname> from database.
Either the
.B -a
option (for all views) or one or more view specifications must be given.
.TP
.B -p
Use this
.I project
path for the database removals.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rmdb
can clean a complete ICD database or remove parts from it.
It can remove all cells from one or more views together.
.PP
.I Rmdb
can also remove individual cells from one or more views.
.PP
.I Rmdb
askes for a confirmation,
when option
.B -f
is not specified,
before proceeding.
.SH NOTES
The current working directory must be the project directory.
.br
You can use the environment variable CWD.
.SH EXAMPLES
% rmdb -aiv
.PP
The above example removes verbose
.I all
cells from
.I all
views and cleans also the "impcelllist" in the views.
.PP
% rmdb layout circuit
.PP
The above example removes
.I all
cells from the layout and circuit view.
.PP
% rmdb -c FlipFlop layout
.PP
The above example removes the FlipFlop cell from the layout view.
.PP
% rmdb -c FlipFlop -c nand2 -af
.PP
The above example removes the FlipFlop and nand2 cell from
.I all
views and does not ask for it.
.SH AUTHORS
S. de Graaf
.SH FILES
.TP 30
\fCproject/exp_dat\fP
(removed, if layout view)
.TP
\fCproject/display.out\fP
(removed, if layout view)
.TP
\fCproject/\fIview\fP/celllist\fP
(cleaned)
.TP
\fCproject/\fIview\fP/impcelllist\fP
(cleaned, option -i)
.TP
\fCproject/\fIview\fP/cell ...\fP
(removed)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Generally self-explanatory.
All messages are echoed on the
.I stderr
output.
