.TH RMPR 1ICD "5/31/90"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rmpr - remove a project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmpr
[-fsv] project
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 12
.I project
The project to be removed.
.SH OPTIONS
Options are:
.TP
.B -f
Force removal of cells in project.
.TP
.B -s
Silence(sure) mode (don't ask for it).
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode.
More verbose, if used more than ones.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rmpr
removes the specified \fIproject\fP.
The argument has to be a legal UNIX path to the project directory.
.PP
With the -f option
.I rmpr
removes all cells in the project.
If the -f option is not specified
.I rmpr
requires the project to be empty,
that is, it should contain no cells.
.PP
The project directory is removed
only if it does not contain any non-project files.
If it does contain non-project files
.I rmpr
just degrades the project directory to an ordinary non-project directory
containing only the remaining non-project files.
.SH NOTE
This program does not use environment variable CWD.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% rmpr old_project
% rmpr ../../projects/project3
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
P. van der Wolf, P. Bingley.
.SH FILES
The following files and directories are removed:
.PP
.if n .ta 24
.if t .ta 6c
.nf
\fCproject/.dmrc\fP	(file)
\fCproject/.dmxdata\fP	(file)
\fCproject/projlist\fP	(file)
\fCproject/exp_dat\fP	(file)
\fCproject/display.out\fP	(Xspace file)
\fCproject/layout\fP	(view dir.)
\fCproject/circuit\fP	(view dir.)
\fCproject/floorplan\fP	(view dir.)
\fCproject/seadif\fP	(ocean dir.)
\fCproject/sls_prototypes\fP	(ocean dir.)
\fCproject\fP	(project dir.)
\fCproject/.cslsrc\fP	(init file)
\fCproject/.dalirc\fP	(init file)
\fCproject/.seadalirc\fP	(init file)
\fCproject/.simeyerc\fP	(init file)
\fCproject/.space.def.p\fP	(init file)
.SH SEE ALSO
mkpr(1ICD),
rmdb(1ICD).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion \fIrmpr\fP returns exit code 0.
Otherwise, a diagnostic is printed and 1 is returned.
