.TH SETCMAP 1ICD
.UC 4
.SH NAME
setcmap - define the standard colormap on an X Windows graphics display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setcmap
[options]
.SH OPTIONS
The following options can be specified:

.TP 25
.B -help
Print usage.
.TP 25
\fB-display host:dpy[.screen]\fP
Specifies the display to set the colormap of.
The value of the environment
variable \fBDISPLAY\fP is taken as default.
.TP 25
\fB-cf colorfile\fP
Do not use the internal list of 32 colors, but this list.
Note that the order of the colors is very important.
The first 8 colors are normally \fBBlack\fP, \fBRed\fP, \fBGreen\fP,
\fBYellow\fP, \fBBlue\fP, \fBMagenta\fP, \fBCyan\fP and \fBWhite\fP.
At least 8 colors must be specified.
It is possible to specify a maximum of 128 different colors.
If you use a set of 16 colors, you get one more "white" plane
if 5 or 7 bitplanes are used.
.TP 25
\fB-rgb rgbfile\fP
Different RGB-values may be specified for the used colors.
A file in the format like X11 "rgb.txt".
Normally the "rgb.txt" file on the server is used for RGB-values.
Be careful, the library routines can not use this new \fBrgbfile\fP,
and are using another to map colornames to RGB-values.
If there are too big differences in the RGB-values,
wrong colormap entries may be used!
.TP 25
.B -3
Set a 3 bit plane colormap instead of the maximum available.
The last occurrence of \fB-3\fP, \fB-5\fP and \fB-7\fP overrides previous
bit plane specifications.
.TP 25
.B -5
Set a 5 bit plane colormap instead of the maximum available.
The last occurrence of \fB-3\fP, \fB-5\fP and \fB-7\fP overrides previous
bit plane specifications.
.TP 25
.B -7
Set a 7 bit plane colormap instead of the maximum available.
The last occurrence of \fB-3\fP, \fB-5\fP and \fB-7\fP overrides previous
bit plane specifications.
.TP 25
.B -f
Replace the colormap with a new one if it already exists.
Without this option nothing happens if the colormap already exists.
.TP 25
.B -p
Print the current CACD colormap.
.TP 25
.B -r
Remove the current CACD colormap.
.TP 25
.B -s
Run in silent mode; no informative messages are printed.
.TP 25
.B -v
Run in verbose mode; print additional status information.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Setcmap
sets, replaces, removes or prints the Nelsis ICD CACD colormap on
an X Windows graphics display.
Its normal behaviour is to set the CACD colormap with the largest number
of bitplanes supported by the display,
unless the CACD colormap already existed then it just returns.
This behaviour can be changed using the options described above.
.SH "STANDARD COLOR TABLE"
The following standard set of 32 color names is used by the program:
.PP
\fBBlack\fP, \fBRed\fP, \fBGreen\fP, \fBYellow\fP, \fBBlue\fP,
\fBMagenta\fP, \fBCyan\fP, \fBWhite\fP, \fBGrey\fP, \fBKhaki\fP,
\fBCoral\fP, \fBSienna\fP, \fBFirebrick\fP, \fBOrange\fP, \fBVioletRed\fP,
\fBNavy\fP, \fBLightGrey\fP, \fBCadetBlue\fP, \fBViolet\fP, \fBGold\fP,
\fBGoldenrod\fP, \fBMaroon\fP, \fBOrchid\fP, \fBPink\fP, \fBPlum\fP,
\fBSalmon\fP, \fBTan\fP, \fBThistle\fP, \fBTurquoise\fP, \fBBrown\fP,
\fBAquamarine\fP and \fBDarkGreen\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
P. Bingley
.br
S. de Graaf (V4.0)
.SH LIMITATIONS
Currently
.B setcmap
can only set 3, 5 or 7 bitplane colormaps.
.SH SEE ALSO
cmapintro(5ICD),
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B Setcmap
tells the user what's happening,
unless \fB-s\fP is specified.
If the program runs successfully it exits with exit status \fBzero\fP,
otherwise the exit status is \fBnon-zero\fP.
