.TH SLS_EXP 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
sls_exp - network expansion program for sls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sls_exp
[-fgmst] cell
.SH OPTIONS
The following options can be specified:
.TP
.B -f
Forces the generation of new binary file(s), independent of the creation
date of existing ones.
.TP
.B -g
Use the debug flag when an executable sls is generated.
.TP
.B -m
When the monitoring option is given the program will print run time
statistics in a file called "sls_exp.mon".
.TP
.B -s
Usually the program will print the names of all cells that are expanded
and the actions that are taken when an executable sls simulator is generated.
When the option -s is specified these messages will be suppressed.
.TP
.B -t
By specifying this option, from the name-tables in each binary format file
that will be generated
all names but the terminal names will be removed.
During simulation
only terminal nodes will be accessible then.
However, the advantage is that
less memory and disk space is needed.
The latter can be useful when very large networks are simulated.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sls_exp
is a program used for expanding networks.
The expanded networks are dumped into a binary format file
which can be used as input for the program
.I sls.
.I Sls_exp
works upon a network description in the database.
The network description in the database can have been made
by the program
.I csls
for example.
Normally, the program
.I sls_exp
is called by the
program
.I sls.
.PP
The full hierarchy of the network specified by \fIcell\fP is expanded by
.I sls_exp.
This means that in a recursive way first binary format files
are generated for sub-cells.
For each cell a new binary format file is only generated
when there was none, or when
the current one is older than the network description in the database
or than a binary format file of a sub-cell.
.PP
When the network contains instances of function blocks,
.I sls_exp
will generate
an executable
.I sls
simulator.
This simulator must be used to simulate the network that
was expanded.
A new executable simulator is only generated when
no appropriate simulator exists
or when function block descriptions have modified.
The file "sls.ld_arg"
can be used to define the (additional) flags for linking the simulator.
.SH EXAMPLES
% sls_exp latch
.AU "A.J. van Genderen"
.SH FILES
.TP 16
\fCsls_exp.mon\fP
(opt.) output file
.TP
\fCsls.ld_arg\fP
(opt.) input file
.TP
\fCsls\fP
generated simulator (for networks containing function blocks).
.TP
\fCsls.funlist\fP
file describing the function blocks contained by the sls executable.
.SH SEE ALSO
sls(1ICD),
csls(1ICD),
cfun(1ICD).
