.de OP
\fB\\$1\fP\\fI\\$2\\fP\\$3
..
.TH SPACE3D 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
space3d - 3D hierarchical layout to circuit extractor

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B space3d
[all space options]
[-3BUX]
cell

.SH OPTIONS
The following additional options can be specified:
.TP
.B -3
Use a boundary-element technique for 3-dimensional
.I capacitance
extraction.
Use with
.B -c
or
.B -C
option.
.TP
.B -B
Use a boundary-element technique to compute
.I substrate
resistances.
.TP
.B -U
No calculation of Green's functions and no Schur matrix inversion.
.TP
.B -X
Start tool
.I Xspace
directly from
.I space3d.
All options of the
.I space3d
run are given to
.I Xspace.
You must also specify the display options.
This option is used by the
.I helios
interface.

.SH HIDDEN OPTIONS
For hidden options a '%' sign needs to be specified after the first '-'.
The following options can be specified:
.TP
.B -f
Extract fine network (no nodes are eliminated).
.TP
.B -g
Extract moments (use option -r and -C).
.TP
.B -m
Enable monitor (produces a "mon.out" file).
.TP
.B -q
Print recognized masks and elements.
.TP
.B -w
Print statistics of recognized elements.
.TP
.B -Z
Do only the prepass steps (no extract pass).
.TP
.B -0
Skip the mesh refinement pass(es).
.TP
.B -2
Skip all prepasses (only extract pass).
.TP
.B "-L \fImax_depth\fP"
Extract cell tree to specified maximum depth.

.SH NOTICE
This manual page only gives a brief introduction to \fIspace3d\fP.
It should in most cases be sufficient, however,
for performing straight-forward extraction tasks.
Other documentation is available, see below.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Space3d
is a 3D hierarchical layout to circuit extractor for 45 degree polygonal geometries.
The program is capable of accurately extracting
MOS and bipolar integrated circuits,
including interconnect resistances and capacitances,
and substrate resistances.
Generally spoken,
.I space3d
extracts the circuits for all layout cells that are specified
in the cell argument list.
These circuits can then be directly simulated,
for example, with
.I sls(1ICD)
or
.I spice.
.PP
.I Space3d
is an upgraded version of the fast
.I space
extractor.
For all common behaviour see the manual page of
.I space(1ICD)
and the Space User's Manual for details.
Note that
.I space3d
is using the
.I flat
extraction mode
when using one of the following options: \fB-3\fP, \fB-B\fP, \fB-b\fP or \fB-X\fP.

.SS "3D Capacitance Extraction (-3)"
.I Space3d
can perform very accurate capacitance extraction by using
a three-dimensional boundary element method.
This is a numerical technique capable of numerically solving
the Laplace equation which governs the electrical field
around the interconnections wires on the IC.
This capability is fully explained in a separate document,
and is not discussed here any further.

.SS "3D Substrate Extraction (-B)"
.I Space3d
can perform very accurate substrate resistance and capacitance extraction by using
a three-dimensional boundary element method.
In modern analog circuits and mixed digital/analog circuits,
coupling effects via the substrate can be an important cause of
malfunctioning of the circuit.
Therefor,
the extraction of an accurate substrate model is very important.

.SS "Element Definition File"
For 3D capacitance extraction the following special sections
must be added to the technology file:
.TP
.B vdimensions
The vertical dimension list specifies for different conductors under
different mask conditions (1) the distance between the ground plane
(substrate) and the bottom of a mask conductor and
(2) the thickness of that conductor.
.TP
.B dielectrics
The dielectric structure of the chip.
The first dielectric layer starts at the bottom (ground plane) and
all other layers start at a positive vertical position.
Each layer has a relative permittivity value.
.TP
.B eshapes
Optional, an edge shape list may be specified (see 3D Capacitance User's Manual).
.TP
.B cshapes
Optional, a cross-over shape list may be specified (see 3D Capacitance User's Manual).
.PP
For 3D substrate resistance extraction the following special section
must be added to the technology file:
.TP
.B sublayers
Specifies the conductivity of the substrate (see Substrate Resistance User's Manual).
.PP
For 3D substrate capacitance extraction the following special section
must be added to the technology file:
.TP
.B subcaplayers
Specifies the relative permittivity of the substrate (see Substrate Resistance User's Manual).

.SS "Parameter File"
Much of the operation of
.I space3d
is also under control of parameters
that are specified in a parameter file.
.PP
The special 3D capacitance parameters start with a leading "\fBcap3d.\fP"
(see 3D Capacitance User's Manual).
.PP
The special 3D substrate resistance parameters start with a leading "\fBsub3d.\fP"
(see Substrate Resistance User's Manual).

.SH EXAMPLES
To produce a transistor network for the cell \fIlatch\fP
including non-metal resistances
and accurate substrate resistances
and 2D couple capacitances,
type:
.PP
% space3d -rBC latch
.PP
To produce a transistor network for the cell \fIlatch\fP
including non-metal resistances
and with 3D couple capacitances,
type:
.PP
% space3d -rC3 latch

.SH SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Before performing the actual extraction,
beside the preprocessors,
for accurate substrate extraction
.I space3d
first runs a prepass
and after that the
.I makesubres(1ICD)
and if requested the
.I makesubcap(1ICD)
program.

.AU "A.J. van Genderen, N.P. van der Meijs, F. Beeftink, P.J.H. Elias, U. Geigenmuller, S. de Graaf"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/space.def.t\fP
default element definition file
.TP
\fCICDPATH/share/lib/process/\fIprocess\fP/space.def.p\fP
default parameter file
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/exp_dat\fP
list of cells to be extracted
.TP
\fCSPACE_TMPDIR/space[12].xxxxxx\fP
green buffer temporary files

.SH SEE ALSO
N.P. van der Meijs, A.J. van Genderen,
F. Beeftink and P.J.H. Elias,
"Space User's Manual",
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
N.P. van der Meijs and A.J. van Genderen,
"Space Tutorial",
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
S. de Graaf, N.P. van der Meijs and A.J. van Genderen,
"Space Tutorial Helios Version",
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
A.J. van Genderen and N.P. van der Meijs,
"Space 3D Capacitance Extraction User's Manual",
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
A.J. van Genderen, N.P. van der Meijs and T. Smedes,
"Space Substrate Resistance Extraction User's Manual",
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
helios(1ICD),
makesubcap(1ICD),
makesubres(1ICD),
space(1ICD),
tecc(1ICD),
Xspace(1ICD).
