.TH SPOCK 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
spock - technology file interface for space
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBspock\fP  [X options]  [-g]
.SH OPTIONS
Beside the standard X Toolkit options (e.g. to set the display,
the geometry, and the foreground color of the program),
the following other option may be specified:
.TP
.B -g
Do not parse the generation part of the "spock.uis" file.
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Spock
is an X-window (Qt toolkit) based user interface
for the generation of technology files for the
.I space(1ICD)
layout verification system.
.SH COMMANDS
Commands are organized in four PullDown Menu's (i.e. \fIFile\fP,
\fIEdit\fP, \fIProcess\fP and \fIHelp\fP).
In most cases you don't need to use the Menu's, because most
commands are also found in the command icon tool bar.
.PP
The MenuBar buttons can also be activated by typing the <\fBMeta\fP> key
and the mnemonic character (the mnemonic
is the character that is underlined).
Commands in the PullDown Menu's can also be activated by only typing
a mnemonic character.
.PP
Spock has organized the technology data, you can enter,
in a number of tabpages.
Each tabpage has a number of sections, which can be opened.
Futhermore, the data must be entered in cells of spreadsheets
or in paramlist fields.
.PP
A spreadsheet row must first be created (by "Insert row").
To give a cell a value, you must first put the cell in edit mode.
Click on the cell and use the "Enter" key, or double-click on the cell.
To leave the edit mode, use again the "Enter" key, or go
to another cell with the navigation keys.
.PP
Before you can start, you must initiate a process (see the following commands).
.PP
Click on the "New process" command,
to start data entry for a new technology.
.PP
Click on the "Open process" command,
to continue data entry (or modification) for a saved process data file.
.PP
Click on the "Save process" command,
to save the data entered into the spock interface.
Don't forget to do this, before you click on the "Quit" button
and exit spock without any warning.
.PP
Click on the "Generate" command,
to generate technology files for the current process.
.AU "Xander Burgerhout, S. de Graaf"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fC\&./spock.uis\fP
spock configuration file
.TP
\fC$ICDPATH/share/lib/spock/spock.uis\fP
spock configuration file
.TP
\fC$ICDPATH/share/lib/spock/section_icons\fP
spock pixmaps directory
.TP
\fC$ICDPATH/share/lib/process\fP
space system process directories
.TP
\fC\&./\fIprocess_name\fP.process\fP
spock process save file
.TP
\fC\&./\fIprocess_name\fP\fP
by user generated process directory
.TP
\fC\&./\fIprocess_name\fP/maskdata\fP
generated maskdata file
.TP
\fC\&./\fIprocess_name\fP/space.def.s\fP
generated tecc element def. file
.TP
\fC\&./\fIprocess_name\fP/space.def.p\fP
generated space parameter file
.TP
\fC\&./\fIprocess_name\fP/bmlist.cgi\fP
generated GDS2 conversion file
.TP
\fC\&./\fIprocess_name\fP/epslay.def\fP
generated PostScript settings
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
space(1ICD), tecc(1ICD),
SPACE USER'S MANUAL, SPOCK USER'S MANUAL
