.TH SUBRESGEN 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
subresgen - generate technology data for substrate resistance extraction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B subresgen
[-cv]
.br
.B subresmkdir
dirname min_term_size
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
Only generate a file "dospace" that
contains the commands to run
.I space3d
on the terminal configurations.
.TP
.B -v
More verbose.
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The tool
.I subresgen
applies
.I space3d
with the boundary-element method for
substrate resistance extraction
to compute substrate resistances for some standard substrate
terminal configurations.
These substrate resistances are then used
to generate "selfsubres" and "coupsubres"
entries in a space element definition file
that can be used with
.I space3d
to extract substrate substrate resistances
using the fast interpolation method.
The command
.I subresmkdir
creates a working project directory for
.I subresgen.

The application is described in more detail below.

.B STEP 1.
.br
Create an element definition file called "space.def.s" for
.I space3d
that contains at least an entry "sublayers"
that describes the profile of the substrate
that you consider
(see the "Space Substrate Resistance Extraction User's Manual").
It is important for
.I subresgen
that the keyword "sublayers" starts at the beginning
of a line, and that the body of the sublayers entry
does not contain empty lines.
Further, the body should be followed
by an empty line.
The same should hold for possible entries "selfsubres"
and "coupsubres" that are contained by the file.
But note that these entries will be overwritten by
.I subresgen.

.B STEP 2.
.br
Run
.I subresmkdir
to create a working project directory for
.I subresgen.
As a first argument you need to specify
the name of the working directory.
As a second argument you need to specify
(in nm) the minimum size of a substrate terminal.
Move the file "space.def.s" to the working directory
that you created with
.I subresmkdir.

.B STEP 3.
.br
Run
.I subresgen
in the working project directory
that you created with
.I subresmkdir.
You will see that messages appear about the
.I space3d
runs that are performed to compute the substrate resistances.
At the end, the element definition file "space.def.s"
will be modified to contain the "selfsubres" and "coupsubres" entries.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% vi space.def.s
% subresmkdir bicmos 180
% cd bicmos
% mv ../space.def.s .
% subresgen
.SH AUTHOR
Arjan van Genderen
.br

Copyright (C) 2003, Delft University of Technology, The Space Team.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fIdirname\fP
project directory with terminal configurations
.TP
\fC\fIdirname\fP/.min_term_size\fP
minimum substrate terminal size
.TP
\fC\fIdirname\fP/process\fP
process directory for \fIspace3d\fP runs
.TP
\fC\fIdirname\fP/space.def.s\fP
input and output element definition file
