.TH TECC 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
tecc - technology compiler for space / space3d
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tecc
[\fB-censtvV\fP] [\fB-m\fP \fImaskdatafile\fP] [\fB-p\fP \fIprocess\fP]
file
.SH OPTIONS
The following options can be specified:
.TP
.B -c
Write non coded.
Default, the key lists are coded to get a smaller output file.
.TP
.B -e
Print expanded condition list for each new mask and element.
.TP
.B -n
Do not compress table-format element-definition file.
This option is useful during element-definition file development.
It makes
.I tecc
run faster, and
.I space
somewhat slower.
.TP
.B "-m \fImaskdatafile\fP"
Specifies the maskdatafile.
Default, the maskdatafile is obtained from the process directory.
.TP
.B "-p \fIprocess\fP"
Specifies the process.
The default process is determined by the current project
directory or, if it is defined, the environment variable ICDPROCESS.
\fIprocess\fP can be a process name, a process number or a process
directory.
.TP
.B -s
Silent mode.
.TP
.B -t
Table-format output file goes to stdout.
.TP
.B "-T \fItclfile\fP"
Generate
.I tclfile
for
.I tabs(1ICD)
in place of compiled technology files.
.TP
.B -v
Increases verbosity.
.TP
.B -V
Special verbatim option to get a more readable output file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The program
.I tecc
acts as a pre-processor for technology descriptions
for the circuit extraction program \fIspace\fP.
From a user-defined element-definition file,
.I tecc
produces a table-format element-definition file
that can be used as input for \fIspace\fP.
.PP
The user-defined input file should
have the extension '.s', while the table-format output file
will be called to the input file with '.t' substituted for '.s'.
.SH THE ELEMENT DEFINITION FILE
In the user-defined element-definition file the elements are
listed that can be recognized from the layout description.
Here, we only describe some basics of the element definition file.
For a full description, see the different Space User Manuals.
.PP
For each of the elements, at least a name and a condition list
has to be specified.
.PP
The name of an element is used to identify the element when
error messages are generated or, for transistor elements,
to identify the element in the circuit that is extracted.
It is not allowed to use the same name in more than one element
definition.
.PP
A condition list specifies
how the presence of a particular element depends on the
presence or absence of the different masks.
The condition list is a boolean expression where
the masks are used as the variables of the expression.
In the expression, the AND operation is performed using
simple concatenation, the OR operation is performed using
the '|' character (AND has precedence over OR)
and the INVERT operation is performed
using the '!' character.
Parentheses may be used to nest the expression.
.PP
References to masks in adjacent areas can be made by preceding
the mask names with a '-' character, or a '=' character.
The following (cross-section) gives an example.

.L{
.nf
.ne 13
   ------------+                +-------------
       =in     |                |    -in
   ------------+                +-------------

               +------------------------------
               |        ps           -ps
               +------------------------------

    ------------------------------------------
                     substrate
.fi
.L}

When preceding the mask name with a '-' character,
a reference is made to a mask that is in an adjacent area.
When preceding the mask name with a '=' character,
a reference is made to a mask that is in an area
that is opposite to the area that contains the masks preceded
with the '-' sign.
The above can be used to define the elements that
are present on the boundary between two regions of
different mask combinations
(e.g. edge capacitances)
or elements that are present between the boundaries
themselves (e.g. lateral capacitances between
parallel wires).
.PP
In the following, the syntax and semantics of the
element-definition file is described.
The element-definition file may contain specifications
for, among other things, the units, the key list,
the resize list, the new list, the conductor elements,
the transistor elements,
the contact elements and the capacitance elements.
Each of these specifications is optional but their order is fixed.
.SS Unit specification
.PP
.if n .nf
\fBunit\fP \fIvariable\fP \fIvalue\fP
  .
  .
.if n .fi
.PP
With one of the above commands, the unit of a variable in the conductor
list, the contact list or the capacitance list is specified.
The string \fIvariable\fP can be either
\fBresistance\fP to specify the unit for sheet resistance,
\fBc_resistance\fP to specify the unit for contact resistance,
\fBa_capacitance\fP to specify the unit for area capacitance,
\fBe_capacitance\fP to specify the unit for edge capacitance
(or - if the capacitance is specified by means of
distance, capacitivity pairs - for lateral capacitance),
\fBcapacitance\fP to specify the unit for capacitance,
\fBdistance\fP to specify the unit for distance
in distance, capacitivity pairs, or
\fBresize\fP to specify the unit for resizing masks.
The unit of each variable is specified by \fIvalue\fP, expressed
in S.I. units.
.SS The key list
.PP
\fBkeys:\fP \fImask1 mask2 ... maskN\fP
.PP
In the key list the masks are enumerated that
should be used as key masks during element recognition.
Based on the key masks
.I tecc
produces a hash table that allows
.I space
to find circuit elements
without separately checking the element conditions
that refer to the presence or absence of the key masks.
Adjacent masks (that are specified by preceding them with a '-'
or '=' character)
might also be used as a key mask.
By carefully choosing the key masks, the speed
of element recognition will be optimal, while the hash table
will be not too large (the size of the hash table will
be equal to 2 ^ N, where N is the number of key masks).
.PP
When no key list is specified, but
.PP
\fBmaxkeys\fP \fIN\fP
.PP
is specified instead,
.I tecc
will select the key masks itself.
Up to a maximum of N,
.I tecc
will select the masks that are most frequently used
for specifying the element conditions.
.PP
When neither a key list nor a maximum number of keys
is specified,
.I tecc
will assume that maxkeys is equal to 12.
.SS New mask specification
.PP
\fBnew\fP: \fIcondition-list : name\fP
  .
  .
.PP
This command allows to create a new mask from the combination
of other masks.
The new mask, given by \fIname\fP, is defined everywhere where
the combination of masks satisfies the condition list of the specification.
The characters '-' and '=' may not be used in the condition list for a
new mask.
Apart from the fact that the new command may be used to develop
more compact element definition files, it can also be used
to define one or more substrate layers.
.SS Color definition list
.PP
\fBcolors\fP :
   \fImask color-name\fP
     .
     .
.PP
The above color list is only used by the \fIXspace\fP tool.
The "color-name" must be in the X11 color database,
or be a hexa-decimal RGB value with a leading '@'-sign.
The color of the substrate can also be specified by using mask "@sub".
.SS Resize mask specification
.PP
\fBresize\fP: \fIcondition-list : mask : value\fP
  .
  .
.PP
This command allows to grow masks with a certain value
(when a positive value is specified)
or shrink masks with a certain value
(when a negative value is specified).
The "mask" that is specified must be
in the condition list that is specified, or it must be a newly created mask name.
In the last case, the new mask becomes a real mask.
For one mask, more than one resize statement may be specified.
.SS The conductor list
.PP
.if n .ta 41
\fBconductors\fP [ \fItype\fP ] :
.ie n \{\
.br
   \fIname : condition-list : mask : sheet-resistivity
	[ : carrier-type]\fP \}
.el \{\
.br
   \fIname : condition-list : mask : sheet-resistivity [ : carrier-type]\fP \}
     .
     .
.PP
The conductor list contains the definitions for the conducting
layers in the circuit.
For each conductor specification, a specification of the
actual conductor mask and a specification of the
sheet-resistivity (in ohms) is required.
For bipolar devices in particular, it is also necessary to
specify the \fIcarrier-type\fP of the conductor.
The type can be 'n' for n-doped and 'p' for p-doped
diffusion conductors and 'm' for metal otherwise (the default case).
.PP
Default, when extracting resistances, linear resistances
will be extracted for a conductor.
However, when a conductor type is specified with a conductor list,
the extracted resistances for all conductors in that list will be of the
specified type.
An element definition file may contain more than one conductor list.
.SS The field-effect-transistor list
.PP
.if t .ta 2.4i
.if n .ta 6
\fBfets\fP:
.ie n \{\
.br
   \fIname : condition-list : mask-g mask-ds [ / mask-s ]
.br
	[( condition-list ) [( cond-list-s )]] [ : connect-b ]\fP \}
.el \{\
.br
   \fIname : condition-list : mask-g mask-ds [ / mask-s ] [ ( condition-list ) [( cond-list-s )] ] [ : connect-b ]\fP \}
     .
     .
.PP
For a field-effect transistor (e.g. MOS or junction FET),
the name and the condition list are followed by a specification of
the gate mask \fImask-g\fP and the drain/source mask \fImask-ds\fP.
Optionally, after a slash, an asymmetric source mask may be defined.
The gate mask and the drain/source mask must be masks
that are defined as a conductor in the conductor list.
Optionally, in parentheses, a condition list
for the drain/source region can be specified.
For asymmetric source, in parentheses, another condition list
for the source region can be specified.
Further, optionally, at the end of the specification after a colon,
a bulk connection \fIconnect-b\fP can be specified for the transistor.
This connection may consist of
(1) a mask that is specified as a conductor in
the conductor list, (2) the string "@sub" to denote
the substrate area below the transistor gate, or (3)
the notation "%(\fIcondition-list\fP)" to denote a substrate
area described by the condition list.
.if t .bp
.SS The bipolar transistor list
.PP
.if n .ta 41
\fBbjts\fP :
.ie n \{\
.br
   \fIname : condition-list : type : mask-e mask-b mask-c
	[ : connect-s ]\fP \}
.el \{\
.br
   \fIname : condition-list : type : mask-e mask-b mask-c [ : connect-s ]\fP \}
     .
     .
.PP
For a bipolar junction transistor, the name, the condition list and
the transistor-type ("ver" for vertical or "lat" for lateral)
are followed by a specification of the emitter mask \fImask-e\fP,
the base mask \fImask-b\fP and the collector mask \fImask-c\fP.
These masks must be defined as a conductor in the conductor list.
Optionally, after a colon, a substrate connection \fIconnect-s\fP
may be specified for the transistor.
This connection may consist of
(1) a mask that is specified as a conductor in
the conductor list, or (2)
the notation "%(\fIcondition-list\fP)" to denote a substrate
area described by the condition list.
.SS The connect list
.PP
\fBconnects\fP :
   \fIname : condition-list : mask1 mask2\fP
     .
     .
.PP
The connect elements connect different semiconductor regions of
the same carrier-type.
They define the connectivity relation between
the different conductors.
\fIMask1\fP and \fImask2\fP are
the conductor masks that are connected.
Note: the connection of conductor layers via a contact or via
should be specified in the contact list (see below).
.SS The contact list
.PP
\fBcontacts\fP [ \fItype\fP ] :
   \fIname : condition-list : mask1 mask2 : contact-resistance\fP
     .
     .
.PP
The contact elements connect different conductors that are
on top of each other.
\fIMask1\fP and \fImask2\fP are
the conductor masks that are connected by the contact.
For \fImask1\fP or \fImask2\fP also the string "@sub" or
the "%(\fIcondition-list\fP)" notation may be used.
The parameter at the end of the specification specifies
the contact resistance in ohm for a (hypothetical) contact of 1 meter * 1 meter.
Default, when extracting resistances, linear resistances
will be extracted for a contact.
However, when a contact type is specified with the contact list,
the extracted resistances
for all contacts in that list will be of the specified type.
An element definition file may contain more than one contact list.
.SS The capacitance list
.PP
[ \fBjunction\fP ] \fBcapacitances\fP [ \fItype\fP ] :
   \fIname : condition-list : mask1 [ mask2 ] : capacitivity\fP
     .
     .
.PP
In the capacitance list, both ground and coupling capacitances
can be defined.
Ground capacitances are defined by using the string
"@gnd", the string "@sub" or the notation
"%(\fIcondition-list\fP)" for either \fImask1\fP or \fImask2\fP.
The difference between the use of the string
"@gnd" and the two other cases is that (1) in the first case
the ground capacitance will be connected to a node called "GND"
while in the other two cases the ground capacitance will be connected to
a node called "SUBSTR", and (2)
- in case of substrate resistance extraction
(see the Space Substrate Resistance Extraction User's Manual) -
"@gnd" represents ideal ground while
"@sub" and "%(\fIcondition-list\fP)" represent substrate areas
between substrate resistances are computed.
Omitting \fImask2\fP is equivalent to using the string "@gnd"
for \fImask2\fP.
.PP
Furthermore, capacitances are distinguished between
surface capacitances, edge capacitances and lateral capacitances.
To define edge capacitance, masks preceded
with a '-' character are used in
the condition list, and either \fImask1\fP
or \fImask2\fP has to be preceded with
a '-' character to denote an edge of an interconnection.
To define lateral capacitances, masks preceded
with a '-' character and mask preceded with a '=' character
are used in the condition list, and either \fImask1\fP
or \fImask2\fP is preceded with a '-' character to denote
one edge of an interconnection and the other mask is preceded
with a '=' character to denote another (opposite)
edge of an interconnection.
.PP
For surface capacitances, \fIcapacitivity\fP is
the capacitance per square meter.
For edge capacitances, \fIcapacitivity\fP is
the capacitance per meter edge length.
For lateral capacitances, the capacitance can be specified in two
different ways.
.P
If only one value is specified, as in the above, \fIcapacitivity\fP is the
capacitance for a configuration where the spacing between two
parallel wires is equal to length of the two wires.
In that case, it is assumed that the lateral coupling capacitance
is proportional to
the distance between the two wires and inverse proportional
to their spacing.
.PP
Lateral coupling capacitances can also be defined as follows.
.PP
.nf
   \fIname : condition-list : mask1 mask2 : distance1 capacitivity1\fP
	\fIdistance2 capacitivity2\fP
	              .
	              .
.fi
.PP
In this case, the distance, capacitivity pairs specify the capacitance between
two parallel wires of a length of 1 meter for different values of the
distance between them.
The lateral coupling capacitance for other configurations is then found
from an interpolation between two distance, capacitivity pairs.
For the interpolation,
functions of type y = a/(x^p)
and type y = a/x + b are used.
If the actual distance is larger or smaller than any specified distance,
an extrapolation is done using the above functions.
.PP
Default, when extracting capacitances, linear capacitances will be extracted.
However, when a capacitance type is specified with the capacitance list,
the extracted capacitances for all capacitance definitions in that list
will be of the specified type.
An element definition file may contain more than one capacitance list.
.PP
Normally, the positive node and the negative node of the extracted
capacitance will be arbitrarily connected to the layers that are
specified with \fImask1\fP and \fImask2\fP.
However, if the keyword "junction" is used before the keyword "capacitance"
of the capacitance list, for all elements in that list,
\fImask1\fP specifies the positive node of the element
and \fImask2\fP specifies the negative node of the element.
.PP
Default, junction capacitances will be extracted as linear capacitances.
However, using the parameter
.B jun_caps
junction capacitances can be extracted in different ways.
This is explained in more detail in the Space User's Manual.
.SS The vertical dimension list
.PP
\fBvdimensions\fP:
   \fIname : condition-list : mask : value1 value2 [value3]\fP
     .
     .
  [\fBomit_cap3d\fP : \fIname1 name2\fP [: \fIcapacitivity\fP]]
  [\fBkeep_cap2d\fP : \fIcap2d-name\fP]
.PP
When using 3d capacitance extraction (by specifying the \fB-3\fP option to \fIspace3d\fP),
it is necessary to specify the above list.
The "name" specifies an unique name for the vdimension.
The "condition-list" specifies the conductor mask surface condition.
The "mask" field specifies the conductor mask.
The 1-st value (> 0) specifies the distance between the substrate and the bottom of the conductor, and
the 2-nd value (>= 0) specifies the thickness of the conductor.
The 3-rd value (> 0) specifies the minimum spacing of the conductor for
.I tabs
usage (default: thickness / 2).
Note that the unit for the values is default in meters.
Another unit can be specified with the \fBvdimension\fP unit specification.
See the cap3d manual when you want also use conductor (edge) shape definitions.
.PP
You can add the
.B omit_cap3d
option to specify that between 2 vdimensions
no 3d surface capacitances must be extracted, but that the 2d capacitance method must be used.
.I Tecc
calculates a suitable 2d capacitivity value bases on the given dielectrics,
but optional you may give a 2d surface capacitivity value.
If you specify a zero value, then no surface capacitances are extracted.
.PP
You can add the
.B keep_cap2d
option to specify that some 2d capacitances must still be extracted during the 3d method.
.SS The edge shape list
.PP
\fBeshapes\fP:
   \fIname : condition-list : mask : value1 value2\fP
     .
     .
.PP
Edge extensions for the vdimension conductor masks can be specified with this list.
Value1 specifies the extension of the bottom and value2 the extension of the top edge.
Note that the unit for both values is default in meters.
Another unit can be specified with the \fBshape\fP unit specification.
.SS The cross-over shape list
.PP
\fBcshapes\fP:
   \fIname : condition-list : mask : val1 val2 val3 val4\fP
     .
     .
.PP
Cross-over extensions for the vdimension conductor masks can be specified with this list.
Value1 and value3 specify the extension of the bottom left and right side.
Value2 and value4 specify the extension of the top left and right side.
Note that the unit for the values is default in meters.
Another unit can be specified with the \fBshape\fP unit.
.SS The dielectric layers
.PP
\fBdielectrics\fP:
   \fIname permittivity bottom\fP
     .
     .
.PP
When using 3d capacitance extraction (by specifying the \fB-3\fP option to \fIspace3d\fP),
it is not necessary to specify the \fIcapacitance\fP section in the technology file.
Instead, you should specify the permittivities of the dielectric layers above
the substrate, in the \fIdielectrics\fP section. In the above template, \fIname\fP is the name of the dielectric
layer (which you may choose freely, except that it should be unique), \fIpermittivity\fP is
the relative permittivity of the material, and \fIbottom\fP is the starting z-coordinate
of the layer, \fBin microns\fP. The \fIbottom\fP field of the first layer should always be 0.

You cannot use more than 3 dielectric interfaces in this public version.

For more information about 3d capacitance extraction
please see the Space 3D Capacitance Extraction User's Manual.
.SS The substrate layers
.PP
\fBsublayers\fP:
   \fIname conductivity top\fP
     .
     .
  [\fBneumann_simulation_ratio\fP : \fIvalue\fP]
.PP
When using 3d substrate resistance extraction (by specifying the \fB-B\fP option to \fIspace3d\fP),
you should specify the conductivity profile of the substrate. This is done by entering different
values of the conductivity, for different layers. In the above template, \fIname\fP is the
name of the layer (which may be chosen freely, except that it should be unique), \fIconductivity\fP
is the conductivity of the layer (in S/m), and \fItop\fP is the z-coordinate of the top of
the layer. The first layer should have \fItop\fP equal to 0, and subsequent layers should have
a negative value for \fItop\fP. The \fItop\fP value is specified \fBin microns\fP.

If the name of last layer is
.B metalization
, then a metal backplate is assumed, and the
conductivity of the layer is ignored (since perfect conductivity will be assumed for the backplate).
The conductivity value for the medium above the substrate is derived from the first conductivity
value and is default divided by 100.
Optional, you can specify the
.B neumann_simulation_ratio
to use another value.

You cannot use more than 2 substrate interfaces (or 3 when using a metalization layer).

For more information about substrate resistance extraction,
please see the Space Substrate Resistance Extraction User's Manual.
.SS The substrate capacitance layers
.PP
\fBsubcaplayers\fP:
   \fIname permittivity top\fP
     .
     .
.PP
When using 3d substrate resistance extraction (by specifying the \fB-B\fP option to \fIspace3d\fP),
you can additional calculate 3d substrate capacitances.
For this method you should specify the capacitance profile of the substrate. This is done by entering different
values of the permittivity, for different layers. In the above template, \fIname\fP is the
name of the dielectric layer (which may be chosen freely, except that it should be unique), \fIpermittivity\fP
is the relative permittivity of the substrate material, and \fItop\fP is the z-coordinate of the top of the layer.
The first layer should have \fItop\fP equal to 0, and subsequent layers should have
a negative value for \fItop\fP. The \fItop\fP value is specified \fBin microns\fP.
.SS The self-substrate resistance list
.PP
\fBselfsubres\fP:
   \fIvalue1 value2 value3 value4\fP
     .
     .
.PP
When using simple substrate resistance extraction (by specifying the \fB-b\fP option to \fIspace\fP),
you should specify the above list of typical interpolation values for different substrate contact dimensions.
The 1-st value specifies the area (in square microns),
the 2-nd value specifies the perimeter (in microns),
the 3-rd value specifies the resistance (in ohms) to the substrate node, and
the 4-th value specifies a ratio factor (for which the conductance must be decreased because of direct coupling).
Tool
.I subresgen
may be used to generate automatically these values (also the coupsubres list).
.SS The couple-substrate resistance list
.PP
\fBcoupsubres\fP:
   \fIvalue1 value2 value3 value4 value5\fP
     .
     .
.PP
When using simple substrate resistance extraction (by specifying the \fB-b\fP option to \fIspace\fP),
you should specify the above list of typical interpolation values for different substrate contact coupling situations.
The 1-st and the 2-nd value specifies two substrate contact area's (in square microns),
the 3-rd value specifies the minimum distance (in microns) between two contacts,
the 4-th value specifies the direct coupling resistance (in ohms), and
the last value specifies a ratio for which the conductance must be decreased.
.SS Comments
.PP
Comments can be included in the element-definition file by
preceding them with a '#' character.
All text following the '#' character, until the end of the line,
will be skipped as comment.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following gives an example of a complete element-definition
file for a cmos process.
.L{
.nf

\fC# process : c5th
# author  : A.J. van Genderen, TU-Delft

unit resistance    1     # ohm
unit c_resistance  1e-12 # ohm per meter ^ 2
unit a_capacitance 1e-3  # farad per meter ^ 2
unit e_capacitance 1e-9  # farad per meter
unit capacitance   1e-18 # farad

conductors :
  # name   : condition      : mask : resistivity : type
    condM  : in             : in   : 0.040
    condP1 : ps sp          : ps   : 33
    condP2 : ps sn          : ps   : 30
    condP3 : ps !sn !sp     : ps   : 20
    condD1 : od !ps sp      : od   : 45 : p    # p+
    condD2 : od !ps sn      : od   : 30 : n    # n+
    condD3 : od !ps !sn !sp : od   : 38    # terminal

fets :
  # name : condition                     : gate d/s : bulk
    nenh : ps od sn !sp !nw !cop !con !cps : ps od
    penh : ps od !sn sp  nw !cop !con !cps : ps od

contacts :
  # name   : condition     : lay1 lay2 : resistivity
    contP  : cps in ps !od :  in   ps  :  90
    contD1 : con in !ps od :  in   od  : 270
    contD2 : cop in !ps od :  in   od  :  90

capacitances :
  # name   : condition     : lay1 lay2 : capacitivity

  # ground capacitances

    capM   : in !ps !od      : in  @gnd : 0.036
    capMe  : !in -in !ps !od : -in @gnd : 0.080

    capP   : ps !od          : ps  @gnd : 0.069
    capPe  : !ps -ps !od     : -ps @gnd : 0.051

    # diff - substr:
    capD1  : od !ps sn        : od  @gnd : 0.041
    capD1e : !od !-ps -od -sn : -od @gnd : 0.21

    # diff - well:
    capD2  : od !ps sp        : od  @gnd : 0.12
    capD2e : !od !-ps -od -sp : -od @gnd : 0.80

  # coupling capacitances

    capMP  : in      ps : in ps  : 0.075
    capMPe : !in -in ps : -in ps : 0.090

    capMD1  : in      !ps od sn :  in od : 0.065
    capMD1e : !in -in !ps od sn : -in od : 0.090
    capMD2  : in      !ps od sp :  in od : 0.066
    capMD2e : !in -in !ps od sp : -in od : 0.090

  # lateral coupling capacitances

    capMeMe : -in !in =in     : -in =in : 2.4
    capPePe : -ps !ps =ps     : -ps =ps : 1.8
    capMePe : -in !in !ps =ps : -in =ps : 1.2\fP

.fi
.L}
.AU "A.J. van Genderen, N. van der Meijs, S. de Graaf, K.J. van der Kolk, E. Matthijssen"
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fCfile.s\fP
input file
.TP 20
\fCfile.t\fP
output file
.if t .bp
.SH SEE ALSO
N.P. van der Meijs, A.J. van Genderen,
F. Beeftink and P.J.H. Elias,
\&``Space User's Manual,''
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
N.P. van der Meijs and A.J. van Genderen,
\&``Space Tutorial,''
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
A.J. van Genderen and N.P. van der Meijs,
\&``Space 3D Capacitance Extraction User's Manual,''
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
A.J. van Genderen, N.P. van der Meijs and T. Smedes,
\&``Space Substrate Resistance Extraction User's Manual,''
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
A.J. van Genderen and N.P. van der Meijs,
\&``Xspace User's Manual,''
Delft University of Technology,
The Netherlands.
.PP
space(1ICD),
space3d(1ICD),
subresgen(1ICD),
tabs(1ICD),
Xspace(1ICD).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When no silent mode is specified,
.I tecc
will print information about the hash table that is being constructed
for element recognition.
This information can be used to tune
the specification of the key masks.
.PP
Furthermore,
.I tecc
will check if legal mask names are used and if conductor masks
are used with transistor, contact and capacitance definitions.
During extraction itself it will be checked if appropriate conductor
elements are present;
for transistor elements and capacitance elements this is required,
for contact elements this is not required.
