.TH TUTORIAL 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
tutorial - create an ocean tutorial project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tutorial
project
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I project
Absolute or relative path of the project to be created.
.br
The basename must be an existing tutorial project.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tutorial
is a symbolic link to the ICELLS(1ICD) script.
The
.I ICELLS
script is a front-end to the real
.I tutorial
script.
This script is to be sourced by the
.I ICELLS
script.
It creates a NELSIS project directory for the OCEANPROCESS (default "fishbone")
and imports the same libraries as mkopr(1ICD) into that project.
The libraries must first be installed with the script ICELLS(1ICD).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARS
.TP
ICDPATH
The full path to the place where the Ocean & Nelsis tree lives.
This environment variable must be set!
.TP
OCEANPROCESS
The name of the ocean process and image to use,
e.g. "fishbone", "gatearray" or "octagon".
The default process is "fishbone".
.TP
BINLIBS
Is set to ICDPATH/share/lib/celllibs/OCEANPROCESS.
This variable is used by the real script and is not an enviroment variable.
It is the path to the directory containing the binary version of the libraries.
.TP
SRCLIBS
Is set to ICDPATH/share/lib/celllibs/OCEANPROCESS/src.
This variable is used by the real script and is not an enviroment variable.
It is the path to the directory containing the ascii version of the libraries,
as well as the template directory.
.TP
PROJ
The basename of the tutorial project.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% tutorial
ERROR: you must specify a tutorial name.
Valid tutorials are:
       hotel
       norgate
% tutorial simon/hotel
------- creating project simon/hotel -------
ERROR: directory "simon" is not writable,
       cannot create "simon/hotel" ...
% mkdir simon
% tutorial simon/hotel
------- creating project simon/hotel -------
------- importing primitives -------
------- importing digilib8_93 -------
------- importing analib8_00 -------
------- importing bonding11_93 -------
------- copying default config files -------
------- copying tutorial-specific files --------

\&...done. Enjoy your tutorial "simon/hotel" !!!
% cd simon/hotel
.SH AUTHORS
P. Groeneveld,
P. Stravers
.SH FILES
.nf
ICDPATH/share/lib/process/processlist
SRCLIBS/tutorial       # the ocean process real tutorial script
SRCLIBS/template/*     # place of default config files
SRCLIBS/tutorials8_93/PROJ/* # place of tutorial-specific files
BINLIBS/*              # place of imported libraries
.SH SEE ALSO
ICELLS(1ICD),
mkopr(1ICD).
