.TH XCONTROL 1ICD "16/06/00"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
xcontrol - set and list extraction state of cells
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xcontrol
[-macro | -regular | -device | -library | -remote]
.br
.if n .ta 7
.if t .ta 1.8c
	[-strict | -free | -freemasks[:mask,..]] [-v] cell...
.br
.B xcontrol
-cleanup [-v] [cell...]
.br
.B xcontrol
-convert [-v]
.br
.B xcontrol
-default [-v] [cell...]
.br
.if n .ta 9
.if t .ta 1c
.B xcontrol
-list	[ct] [it] [cell... | -cl | -icl]
.br
.B xcontrol
-liste	[ct] [it] [cell... | -cl | -icl | -obs | -new | -old]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B -macro
Set the extraction state to Macro.
.TP
.B -regular
Set the extraction state to Regular.
.TP
.B -device
Set the extraction state to Device.
.TP
.B -library
Set the extraction state to Library.
.TP
.B -remote
Set the extraction state of imported cells to remote state.
.TP
.B -strict
Set the interface type to Strict.
.TP
.B -free
Set the interface type to Free.
.TP
.B -freemasks
Set the interface type to Freemasks.
When no masklist is specified, old masklist of entry is used.
.TP
.B -cleanup
Remove (all) obsolete cell entries from xcontrol file.
.TP
.B -convert
Convert format of extraction state information in the project.
.TP
.B -default
Set (all) cells to the default status.
.TP
.B -list
List the extraction state of the database cells.
When option 'ct' is specified, only of that celltype.
When option 'it' is specified, only of that interfacetype.
.TP
.B -liste
List only the entries of cells in the xcontrol file.
.TP
.B -cl
List only celllist (local) cells.
.TP
.B -icl
List only impcelllist (imported) cells.
.TP
.B -obs
List only obsolete cell entries.
.TP
.B -new
List only newest cell entries.
.TP
.B -old
List only oldest cell entries.
.TP
.B -v
Set verbose mode.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xcontrol
program sets or reads the extraction state and interface type
of the cells that are local or imported from another project.
See below for a description of these settings.

Note that the requested set action takes always place and touches the
timestamp of the cell entry.

When the option
.B -list
without a cell is specified,
all cells in the project and their extraction state will be shown.

When the option
.B -convert
is specified,
the dataformat of the extraction state information of
the cells that are present in the IC design database is converted.
.br
The extraction state of all cells in the project will be read, converted in the new
format provided by dmPutCellStatus(), and the old extraction state information of each
cell will be removed.
.SH EXTRACTION STATUS and INTERFACE TYPE
A cell can have different extraction statuses, as well as different
interface types. Extraction statuses and their meaning are as follows:
.TP 12
.B regular
the module is extracted hierarchically or flattened,
depending on the extractor option.
.TP
.B macro
the module is always flattened during extraction.
.TP
.B library
the module is not extracted, it is included
in the extracted circuit as an instance and a
(previously extracted) library circuit is available for it.
.TP
.B device
the module is not extracted and is included
in the extracted circuit as a network primitive.

.TP 0
Interface types and their meaning are as follows:
.TP 12
.B strict
when the module is used as an instance, it only connects to its
parent module via its terminal areas.
.TP
.B free
when the module is used as an instance, it connects to its
parent module via its terminal areas as well as via
all polygons that are connected to its terminal areas.
.TP
.B freemasks
when the module is used as an instance, it connects to its
parent module via its terminal areas as well as via
all polygons of the specified mask type(s)
that are connected to its terminal areas.
.SH EXAMPLES
The first example converts the current (old) database project
into the (new) xcontrol format:
.nf

% xcontrol -convert

.fi
The second example sets the celltype "macro" of two cells:
.nf

% xcontrol -macro inv oscil

.fi
The third example sets the interfacetype "freemasks" with
3 masks (the masks have to be in the project) of the cell oscil:
.nf

% xcontrol -freemasks:cpg,caa,cmf oscil

.fi
The fourth example sets the celltype "device" and the
interfacetype "free" of 2 cells verbose:
.nf

% xcontrol -device -free -v term3 poly5
  term3  Device  Free  Jun 13 15:00:12 2000
  poly5  Device  Free  Jun 13 15:00:12 2000

.fi
The fifth example lists all cells in the actual project
with their extraction state. The first row is the cellname,
the second the celltype, the third the interfacetype and the
fourth the last date of change. If the interfacetype is Freemasks,
the masks of this cell are written just on the next line.
.nf

% xcontrol -list
local cells:
  aa     C  Regular  Strict     No status found
  inv    L  Macro    Strict     Jun 13 14:49:57 2000
  oscil  L  Macro    Freemasks  Jun 13 14:51:02 2000

  Mask(s): cpg cca cmf
  poly5  LC  Device  Free  Jun 13 15:00:12 2000
  term3  LC  Device  Free  Jun 13 15:00:12 2000

imported cells:
  rc1  L   Regular  Strict  Jun 13 14:47:38 2000
  rc2  LC  Regular  Strict  Jun 13 14:47:38 2000

.fi
The sixth example sets all local and imported cells to default.
The local cells are set to regular, strict and the imported cells
are set to the status from the imported project.
.nf

% xcontrol -default

.SH AUTHOR
M. Grueter,
S. de Graaf
.SH FILES
.TP 30
\fCproject/.dmxdata\fP
(in/output xcontrol file)
.TP
\fCproject/layout/celllist\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCproject/layout/impcelllist\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCproject/layout/\fIcell\fP/is_macro\fP
(old file, deleted)
.TP
\fCproject/circuit/celllist\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCproject/circuit/impcelllist\fP
(input file)
.TP
\fCproject/circuit/\fIcell\fP/devmod\fP
(old file, deleted if empty)
