.TH XSPACE 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
Xspace - 3D layout to circuit extractor display program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Xspace
[space3d options]
[-X]
[X toolkit options]
[cell]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-S disp.\fIoption\fP
Enable display
.I option
for usage.
.TP
.B -X
Omit the menu bar and run
.I space3d
immediately.
A cell name must be given on the command line.
.SH "TOOLKIT OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -bg color
Set the background color to \fIcolor\fP.
.TP
.B -display host:screen
Tell X server which
.I host screen
must be used for graphical I/O.
Default, the environment variable DISPLAY is used.
.TP
.B -fg color
Set the foreground color to \fIcolor\fP.
.SH NOTICE
This manual page only gives a brief introduction to \fIXspace\fP.
It should in most cases be sufficient, however,
for performing straight-forward extraction tasks.
Other documentation is available, see below.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xspace
is the graphical display tool of the
.I space3d(1ICD)
program.
It is an X Window System based application.
.PP
.I Xspace
is extremely useful to inspect 2D resistance meshes
and 3D capacitance boundary-element meshes.
But,
.I Xspace
can also be used to display in color the used
.I space3d
masks tile splitting and edges.
.PP
.I Xspace
can also be started from the
.I helios(1ICD)
Space User Interface.
When using this interface,
you don't need to remember the options needed.
You can easy fill in the Extraction and Display options Forms.
.SH MENUS
.SS "Extract Menu"
For all menu items see the
.I Xspace
User's Manual.
.TP 3
.B extract
Start
.I space3d
to do the extraction process (hotkey: 'e').
.TP
.B extract again
Show last extraction again (hotkey: 'a').
.I Xspace
redisplays the display.out file.
.TP
.B save pp image
Don't clear the display after the prepass.
.TP
.B save ep image
Don't clear the display before a new extraction.
.TP
.B display clear
Clear the display (hotkey: 'c').
.TP
.B quit
Stop the program and exit (hotkey: 'q').
.TP
.B pause
Start/stop pause drawing display output (hotkey: 'p').
.TP
.B pause afterpp
Goto pause after each prepass is finished.
.TP
.B run free
No speed control anymore; the fastest drawing speed (hotkey: 'f').
Be aware that
.I Xspace
doesn't look for keyboard events anymore till the end of the extraction.
.TP
.B single step
Start single step mode (hotkey: 's').
Use the key or menu entry again to single step.
Use hotkey 'e' or 'd' to go back to delayed (speed controlled) mode.
.SS "Database Menu"
To select a layout cell for extraction.
Maximum 34 cells in one Database menu.
.SS "Option Menu"
To set extraction options.
See the
.I Xspace
User's Manual.
.SS "Display Menu"
To set display options.
See also the
.I Xspace
User's Manual.
.SS "Speed Scrollbar"
Click in the scrollbar to choice a display drawing speed or
enable speed controlled mode again after single step.
.SH HOTKEYS
There are many hotkeys.
Some are already mentioned above in the Extract Menu.
For all hotkeys, see the
.I Xspace
User's Manual.
.TP
.B Key: Left-arrow
Move picture a half window to the left.
.TP
.B Key: Right-arrow
Move picture a half window to the right.
.TP
.B Key: Down-arrow
Move picture a half window to the down-wards.
.TP
.B Key: Up-arrow
Move picture a half window to the up-wards.
.TP
.B Key: m
Move picture; center around pointer position.
.TP
.B Key: b
Zoom back to cell bounding box again.
.TP
.B Key: i
Zoom in on current pointer position.
.TP
.B Key: I
Zoom in on center of display window.
.TP
.B Key: o
Zoom out on current pointer position.
.TP
.B Key: O
Zoom out on center of display window.
.TP
.B Key: u
Undo last zoom; back to previous view.
.TP
.B Key: x
Zoom, use pointer position as lower left corner.
.TP
.B Key: y
Zoom, use pointer position as upper right corner.
.TP
.B Key: .
Display layout coordinates of pointer position.
Note that coordinates are default displayed in internal units.
That are database units multiplied by four.
.TP
.B Key: Ctrl-c
Abort extraction or extract again mode.
.TP
.B Key: Ctrl-l
Redraw display window, but don't use clear.
.SH PARAMETERS
For all parameters see the
.I Xspace
User's Manual.
.TP
\fBdisp.coord_in_dbunits \fIon|off\fR
Use database units to display coordinate values (default: internal units).
.TP
\fBdisp.coord_in_microns \fIon|off\fR
Use micron meters to display coordinate values (default: internal units).
.TP
\fBdisp.draw_file \fIfile\fR
Additional drawing commands may be specified in a file.
For the command syntax see the User's Manual.
.SH COLORS
The colors that are used by
.I Xspace
to display the different masks/conductors tiles,
are specified in the colors section of the
.I space3d
element definition technology file.
You can use color names as well as RGB values.
The RGB values must start with a leading '@' sign.
You can overrule a specific mask color setting with the
\fBdisp.color_\fPmask parameter.
For example,
to give mask 'metal2' the (hex) RGB value '44F',
specify:
.PP
   disp.color_metal2  @44F
.SH EXAMPLES
To start the display program for the cell \fIlatch\fP
and using a local space parameter file,
type:
.PP
% Xspace -P local.p latch
.PP
Note that the
.I space3d
extraction options can be set in the "Options" menu
and the
.I Xspace
display options can be set in the "Display" menu.
The extraction can be started by clicking "extract" in the "Extract" menu
(or by using the 'e' hotkey).
.PP
% Xspace -P local.p -r3C latch
.PP
The above command does almost the same as the previous command,
but the extraction options are already specified.
.PP
% Xspace -P local.p -r3C -X latch
.PP
The above command starts directly an extraction.
The
.I Xspace
menu's cannot be used,
thus the used display options must be specified in the parameter file
(or else with a number of
.B -S
options on the command line).
.AU "A.J. van Genderen, N.P. van der Meijs, S. de Graaf"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fCNELSISPROJECT/display.out\fP
output file from \fIspace3d\fP, read and displayed by \fIXspace\fP.
.TP
\fCspace.def.t\fP
default name of the
.I space3d
technology file, which was compiled by \fItecc(1ICD)\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
A.J. van Genderen and N.P. van der Meijs,
"Space 3D Capacitance Extraction User's Manual",
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
A.J. van Genderen, N.P. van der Meijs and T. Smedes,
"Space Substrate Resistance Extraction User's Manual",
Delft University of Technology,
Delft,
The Netherlands.
.PP
A.J. van Genderen and N.P. van der Meijs,
"Xspace User's Manual",
Delft University of Technology,
Delft.
.PP
helios(1ICD),
space(1ICD),
space3d(1ICD),
tecc(1ICD).
