.TH XSPF 1ICD "User Commands"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
xspf - extract SPF network description out of the database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ie n .ta 20
.el .ta 2i
.B xspf
[-defghikonpruvxy -w width -z name -O name
.br
	-C file -D name -F outfile -X lib] cell
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -d
Use original
.I database
.I names
for instance names.
.TP
.B -e
Expand name arrays into single names.
.TP
.B -f
Send output to a file \fIcell\fP.spf instead of to \fIstdout\fP.
.TP
.B -g
Connect a large
.I grounded
.I resistor
to each node of the two nodes
.if t .br
that are connected by a net statement.
.TP
.B -h
Also extract
.I hierarchy
(used local sub-cells).
.TP
.B -i
Also extract
.I imported
sub-cells (when option \fB-h\fP is used).
.TP
.B -k
Output all cells as sub-circuits.
.TP
.B -o
Omit model definitions for devices in the output file.
.TP
.B -n
Always add terminals for
.I n-bulk
connections.
.TP
.B -p
Always add terminals for
.I p-bulk
connections.
.TP
.B -r
Do not generate **DEFINE lines.
.TP
.B -u
Do not automatically add terminals for bulk connections.
.TP
.B -v
Enable
.I verbose
mode.
.TP
.B -w
Use \fIwidth\fP for the output listing.
.TP
.B -x
Omit nodes whose name start with "gnd" or "GND".
.TP
.B -y
Omit nodes whose name start with "vss" or "VSS".
.TP
\fB-z\fP \fIprefix\fP
Omit nodes whose name start with \fIprefix\fP.
.TP
\fB-O\fP \fIname\fP
Omit the node that has this name.
This option has a default value "GND".
.TP
\fB-C\fP \fIfile\fP
Use the specified \fIfile\fP as the control file.
.TP
\fB-D\fP \fIname\fP
Define label \fIname\fP for conditional reading of the control file.
.TP
\fB-F\fP \fIoutfile\fP
Send output to the specified file.
.TP
\fB-X\fP \fIlib\fP
Exclude specific certain library cells from the listing
(when options \fB-hi\fP are used).
This is very useful if you have a design with your own imported libraries.
This option may be given several times.
There are two exclude possibilities:
(1) all lib's starting with absolute path (for example "-X /usr/ocean");
(2) the lib with basename (for example "-X primitives").
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xspf
is a program to extract an SPF circuit description out of the database.
Default, only a circuit description of the cell itself is extracted and
no sub-cells are extracted.
When using the
.B -h
option the program will also extract all (local) sub-cells
that are not a function (see "SLS: Switch-Level Simulator User's Manual")
or a device.
.PP
The
.I xspf
program
is a derivate of the
.I xspice
program.
See also the description in the
.I xspice
manual page.
.PP
.I Xspf
adds Cadence Standard Parasitic Format (SPF) information to the SPICE
alike output.
The output is in proposed Detailed SPF (DSPF).
It contains complete extracted circuit information intended
to be used in conjunction
with a circuit simulator for comprehensive simulation
or with a timing analyzer for delay analysis.
.PP
For
.I xspf
the netlist in the database must contain conductor numbers.
This netlists are generated with the
.I space(1ICD)
layout to circuit extractor.
.SH "THE CONTROL FILE"
For
.I xspf
a control file may be used.
The default name of the control file is "xspicerc".
First,
the program tries to read this file from the current working directory.
Next,
it tries to open the control file in the process directory.
Note, the control file may also be used for other programs.
.PP
See the
.I xspice
manual page for a complete description of all possible parameters.
Only two useful specifications for
.I xspf
are given here.
.PP
The
.I hier_name_sep
parameter defines the DIVIDER character (default '/') that must be used:
.nf

   hier_name_sep  \fIchar\fP

.fi
The
.I inst_term_sep
parameter defines the DELIMITER character (default ':') that must be used:
.nf

   inst_term_sep  \fIchar\fP

.fi
.SH "CONTROL FILE CONDITIONALS"
See the
.I xspice
manual page for more details.
.br
The following condition is true for \fIxspf\fP:
.TP
#if SPF
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
% xspf -h latch
.AU "A.J. van Genderen"
.SH MODIFIED BY
.nf
S. de Graaf
.SH FILES
.TP 12
\fC\fIcell\fP.spf\fP
(output file, when option \fB-i\fP is used)
.TP
\fCxspicerc\fP
(default control file for xspf/xspice/...)
.TP
\fCspicemod\fP
(models file for xspf/xspice/...)
.SH SEE ALSO
cspice(1ICD),
putdevmod(1ICD),
space(1ICD),
xcontrol(1ICD),
xspice(1ICD),
xspef(1ICD).
