.TH COUPLEIDTORGB 5ICD "9/6/88"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
CoupleIdToRGB - couple a user specified Id to a color from the CACD colormap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
CoupleIdToRGB (Id, R, G, B)
int Id;
float R, G, B;

CoupleIdsToRGBs (Ids, Rs, Gs, Bs, n)
int Ids[];
float Rs[], Gs[], Bs[];
int n;
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 14
.B Id(s)
a user specified Id of something he wishes to couple a color to.
.TP 14
.B R(s),G(s),B(s)
specifies the color.
.TP 14
.B n
specifies the number of Ids and RGBs to couple.
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions create a mapping table from user supplied Id's to colors.
R, G and B specify a color intensity in the range from \fB0\fP to \fB1\fP.
These values are used to
find the best matching color in the CACD colormap.
The obtained pixel value is coupled to the specified Id in an internal
table.
When the same Id is specified several times the last color is stored.

The best matching color is found by minimizing the sum of the square
of the difference between a color and a specified RGB value.
When several colors of the CACD colormap match equally well, the pixel
value with the minimal number of 'one' bits is selected,
in order to minimize the dependencies between Id's.
When colors match equally well and have the same (minimal) number
of one bits then the color which is used least is selected.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the call to \fBCoupleIdToRGB()\fP is successful \fB1\fP is returned.
If \fBCoupleIdToRGB()\fP fails \fB0\fP will be returned
and \fBcacdcmaperrno\fP will be set to one of the following values:
.TP 14
.B NOINIT
the CACD colormap library was not initialized.
.TP 14
.B NOCORE
not enough core can be allocated.
.TP 14
.B BADID
a specified Id was smaller than zero.
.TP 14
.B BADCOLOR
a specified color intensity was not in the range from \fB0\fP to \fB1\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
InitCacdCmap(5ICD)
CoupleIdToColor(5ICD)
DecoupleId(5ICD)
GetAffectedIds(5ICD)
.SH NOTE
For optimal memory usage in the internal table,
a set of Id's should be a consecutive set of integers starting at zero.
