.TH DMCHECKIN 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmCheckIn - terminate a cell transaction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

int dmCheckIn (DM_CELL *cellkey, int mode);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "DM_CELL *cellkey"
is a pointer to a valid \fBDM_CELL\fP as obtained from dmCheckOut().
.TP
.B "int mode"
is an integer selecting a specific behavior of dmCheckIn().
Valid modes as pre-defined in "dmincl.h" are:
.sp
\fBCOMPLETE\fP -
'in +3
The data at the 'scratch' node is 'flushed' to the database,
and the \fBcellkey\fP is destroyed.
The transaction \fBcommits\fP.
The data lock is removed.
.in -3
\fBQUIT\fP -
'in +3
The data at the 'scratch' node is deleted,
and the \fBcellkey\fP is destroyed.
The transaction \fBrewinds\fP.
The lock on the data is removed.
.in -3
\fBCONTINUE\fP -
'in +3
The data at the 'scratch' node is 'flushed' to the database,
but the \fBcellkey\fP is \fBnot\fP destroyed.
The running transaction is \fBcommitted\fP and a new transaction
is \fBinitiated\fP immediately.
The lock on the data is \fBnot\fP removed.
.in -3
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmCheckIn
terminates a cell transaction
initiated with dmCheckOut(),
except when mode is \%\fBCONTINUE\fP.
The precise actions depend also upon the version and mode parameters
of dmCheckOut().
.PP
Function
.B dmCheckIn
closes all streams that have been opened with
.B cellkey
and have not yet been closed.
The mode used for these close-streams is
.B COMPLETE
if
.B mode
is
.B COMPLETE
or
.B CONTINUE
and is
.B QUIT
if
.B mode
is
.BR QUIT .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If properly executed,
.B dmCheckIn
will return \fB0\fP.
If
.B dmCheckIn
fails \fB-1\fP will be returned.
The external variable
.B dmerrno
will be set to indicate the error,
and a call to function dmError() will be done.
.PP
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 14
.B DME_BADARG
No valid mode argument given.
.TP
.B DME_BADKEY
No valid cell access key given.
.TP
.B DME_SYS
System error (dmCloseStream).
.SH SEE ALSO
dmCheckOut(5ICD),
dmCkinAll(5ICD),
dmCloseStream(5ICD).
