.TH DMCLOSESTREAM 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmCloseStream - close a DMI stream transaction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

int dmCloseStream (DM_STREAM *streamkey, int mode);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "DM_STREAM *streamkey"
is a pointer to a valid
.B DM_STREAM
as obtained from the function dmOpenStream().
.TP
.B "int mode"
is an integer selecting a specific behavior of
.BR dmCloseStream .
Valid modes as pre-defined in "dmincl.h" are:
.sp
\fBCOMPLETE\fP -
'in +3
The stream data is 'flushed' to the database,
and the \fBstreamkey\fP is destroyed.
.br
The transaction \fBcommits\fP.
.in -3
\fBQUIT\fP -
'in +3
When writing, the stream data is deleted,
and the \fBstreamkey\fP is destroyed.
.br
The transaction was not successful.
.in -3
.B CONTINUE
-
'in +3
This mode is not implemented.
.in -3
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmCloseStream
closes the stream specified by
the access key \fBstreamkey\fP
and invalidates the access key.
.PP
In the current implementation streams are mapped more or less directly
to UNIX files.
Therefore, \fBdmCloseStream\fP
causes any buffers for the file to be emptied.
It closes the file,
like fclose(3S) does.
Buffers allocated by the standard input/output system are freed.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the call to
.B dmCloseStream
is successful \fB0\fP is returned.
If
.B dmCloseStream
fails \fB-1\fP is returned.
The external variable
.B dmerrno
will be set to indicate the error,
and a call to function dmError() will be done.
.PP
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 14
.B DME_BADARG
Bad mode argument given.
.TP
.B DME_BADKEY
Bad cell key given.
.TP
.B DME_SYS
System error (fclose failure).
.SH SEE ALSO
dmOpenStream(5ICD),
fclose(3S).
