.TH DMCLOSEPROJECT 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmCloseProject - terminate a project transaction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

int dmCloseProject (DM_PROJECT *projkey, int mode);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "DM_PROJECT *projkey"
is a pointer to a valid \fBDM_PROJECT\fP as obtained from dmOpenProject().
.TP
.B "int mode"
is an integer selecting a specific behavior of dmCloseProject().
Valid modes as pre-defined in "dmincl.h" are:
.sp
\fBCOMPLETE\fP -
'in +3
The project transaction \fBcommits\fP.
.br
The \fBprojkey\fP is destroyed.
.in -3
\fBQUIT\fP -
'in +3
The project transaction is \fBaborted\fP.
.br
The \fBprojkey\fP is destroyed.
.in -3
\fBCONTINUE\fP -
'in +3
The project transaction \fBcontinues\fP.
.br
The \fBprojkey\fP is \fBnot\fP destroyed.
.in -3
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmCloseProject
terminates the project transaction and
invalidates the access key
.BR projkey .
This is only done for modes
.B COMPLETE
and
.BR QUIT .
For the mode
.B CONTINUE
the access key
.B projkey
remains valid.
.SH NOTE
Function
.B dmCloseProject
does not checks-in the cells that have been checked-out with
.B projkey
and have not yet been checked-in.
Use
.B dmCheckIn
for this purpose.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If properly executed, dmCloseProject() will return \fB0\fP.
If dmCloseProject() fails \fB-1\fP will be returned.
The external variable
.B dmerrno
will be set to indicate the error,
and a call to function dmError() will be done.
.PP
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 14
.B DME_BADARG
Bad mode argument specified.
.TP
.B DME_BADKEY
Bad project key specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
dmCheckIn(5ICD),
dmCkinAll(5ICD),
dmOpenProject(5ICD).
