.TH DMFINDPROJKEY 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmFindProjKey - find project key and remote cell name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

DM_PROJECT *dmFindProjKey (int loc_imp, char *local_name,
	    DM_PROJECT *father_proj, char **rem_namep, char *view);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "int loc_imp"
indicates whether it concerns a local or an imported cell.
Accepted values are \fBLOCAL\fP and \fBIMPORTED\fP,
as predefined in "dmincl.h".
.TP
.B "char *local_name"
is either the name of a local cell or the alias (local name) of an
imported cell.
.TP
.B "DM_PROJECT *father_proj"
is the key of the project in which the local name is defined.
.TP
.B "char **rem_namep"
is a pointer to which the actual cell name will be attached.
.TP
.B "char *view"
is the view type of the cell.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmFindProjKey
is a higher level utility that
supports the tool in performing a context switch
to another project from which a cell has to be obtained.
.PP
In the project that is identified by \fBfather_proj\fP the cell is
known as \fBlocal_name\fP.
If this \fBlocal_name\fP is an alias for an imported cell, as indicated
by \fBloc_imp\fP,
.B dmFindProjKey
will resolve the corresponding project
and remote name from the meta data that has been administered in the
father project.
If necessary, the son project will be opened.
Function
.B dmFindProjKey
attaches the remote name to \fBrem_namep\fP
and returns the key of the son project.
If \fBloc_imp\fP is \fBLOCAL\fP,
.B dmFindProjKey
assumes the son cell is situated in the father project and
returns the father project key and the cell name (== \fBlocal name\fP)
immediately.
.PP
Function
.B dmFindProjKey
greatly facilitates expansion
in a multi-project environment,
where son cells may be called from other projects than their own.
During the expansion process the tool may obtain aliases for imported cells
when reading the hierarchical information.
By simply calling
.B dmFindProjKey
the tool can obtain all the necessary
information for a dmCheckOut() of the son cell.
As
.B dmFindProjKey
may be called for both
the
.B LOCAL
and
.B IMPORTED
cases, no explicit testing is necessary in the tool.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If properly executed,
.B dmFindProjKey
will return a pointer to a DM_PROJECT.
If
.B dmFindProjKey
fails
.B NULL
will be returned.
The external variable
.B dmerrno
will be set to indicate the error,
and a call to function dmError() will be done.
.PP
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 14
.B DME_BADARG
Bad
.B loc_imp
argument.
.TP
.B DME_BADKEY
Bad project key.
.TP
.B DME_BADVIEW
Bad view type.
.TP
.B DME_CORE
Cannot alloc core.
.TP
.B DME_NOCELL
Cell does not exist.
.TP
.B DME_NOIMPCL
No imported celllist.
.PP
Errors may also result from a call to
dmOpenProject() that may be performed by dmFindProjKey().
.SH SEE ALSO
dmOpenProject(5ICD).
