.TH DMGETXDATA 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmGetXData - get next extraction status entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

int dmGetXData (FILE *fp, DM_XDATA *xdata);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "FILE *fp"
a file pointer obtained from dmOpenXData().
.TP
.B "DM_XDATA *xdata"
a pointer to a \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmGetXData
gets the next available extraction state information of a cell.
.PP
You must give a \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure to the function.
.PP
When successful,
a filled \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure is returned,
containing extraction status information about a particular cell.
.PP
The \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure has the following members:
.PP
.nf
.if n .ta 4 11 29
.if t .ta 1c 2c 6c
	char *	\fBname\fP	cell name
	long	\fBtimestamp\fP	last modified date
	short	\fBcelltype\fP	type of cell
	short	\fBinterfacetype\fP	type of interface
	char *	\fBmasks\fP	list of masks
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \fBdmGetXData()\fP is successful,
\fB1\fP will be returned.
The \fBname\fP and \fBmasks\fP members points to a static buffer.
This static buffer is re-used by each call.
The \fBmasks\fP member can contain a list of mask identifiers (>= 0).
.PP
If \fBdmGetXData()\fP detects EOF,
\fB0\fP will be returned.
The \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure is not filled.
.PP
If \fBdmGetXData()\fP fails,
\fB-1\fP is returned after dmError() has been called.
.if t .br
This may happen in the following case:
.TP 16
.B DME_GET
Data read error.
.SH SEE ALSO
dmGetCellStatus(5ICD),
dmOpenXData(5ICD),
xcontrol(1ICD).
