.TH DMGETCELLSTATUS 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmGetCellStatus - get extraction status of a cell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

int dmGetCellStatus (DM_PROJECT *dmproject, DM_XDATA *xdata);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "DM_PROJECT *dmproject"
a pointer to a valid \fBDM_PROJECT\fP as obtained from dmOpenProject().
.TP
.B "DM_XDATA *xdata"
a pointer to a \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmGetCellStatus
provides access to the extraction state information of a cell.
.PP
You must give a \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure to the function and
assign a cell name to the \fBname\fP member into the structure.
.PP
It returns a filled \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure,
containing information about the
particular cell of the project identified by \fBdmproject\fP.
.PP
The \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure has the following members:
.PP
.nf
.if n .ta 4 11 29
.if t .ta 1c 2c 6c
	char *	\fBname\fP	cell name
	long	\fBtimestamp\fP	last modified date
	short	\fBcelltype\fP	type of cell
	short	\fBinterfacetype\fP	type of interface
	char *	\fBmasks\fP	list of masks
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \fBdmGetCellStatus()\fP is successful,
\fB0\fP will be returned.
The \fBmasks\fP member points to a static buffer
and can contain a list of mask identifiers (>= 0).
.if t .PP
If the cell cannot be found, \fB1\fP will be returned.
A default filled \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure is given back.
The defaults are: timestamp = 0,
celltype = DM_CT_REGULAR,
interfacetype = DM_IF_STRICT
and *masks = '\\0'.
Function dmError() is not called.
External variable \fBdmerrno\fP will be set to reason:
.TP 16
.B DME_BADPR
Bad project.
.TP
.B DME_FOPEN
Cannot read xcontrol file.
.TP
.B DME_GET
Premature EOF.
.PP
If another error condition occurs, \fB-1\fP is returned after
dmError() has been called.
.if t .br
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 16
.B DME_GET
No xdata.
Data read error.
.TP
.B DME_NOCELL
No cell name specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
dmPutCellStatus(5ICD), xcontrol(1ICD).
