.TH DMINIT 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmInit - initialize the DMI environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

int dmInit (char *progname);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "char *progname"
name of the invoking tool.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmInit
initializes the Nelsis framework environment,
it must be called by the application program
before any of the other DMI (Data Management Interface)
functions is called.
.PP
Function
.B dmInit
will initialize the global variable
.B icdpath
with the home directory path
of an user which is declared to be the owner of the Nelsis IC Design System
(default: user 'cacd').
The following environment variables can be set:
.TP
.B ICDUSERNAME
The environment variable
.B ICDUSERNAME
can be used to overrule the default username 'cacd'.
.TP
.B ICDPATH
The environment variable
.B ICDPATH
can be used to overrule the setting of the home directory
via user identifications
and set
.B icdpath
to a value.
.PP
Function
.B dmInit
does also a program license check.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the call to
.B dmInit
is successful \fB0\fP is returned.
If
.B dmInit
fails \fB-1\fP will be returned.
The external variable
.B dmerrno
will be set to indicate the error,
and a call to function dmError() will be done.
.PP
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 14
.B DME_INIT
DMI already initialized.
.TP
.B DME_DDM
License expired.
.SH NOTE
Function
.B dmInit
does not return, when the
.B icdpath
cannot be set.
In that case it gives an error message and calls exit(1).
.SH SEE ALSO
dmQuit(5ICD).
