.TH DMOPENSTREAM 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmOpenStream - open a DMI stream transaction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

DM_STREAM *dmOpenStream (DM_CELL *cellkey, char *stream, char *mode);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "DM_CELL *cellkey"
is a pointer to a valid \fBDM_CELL\fP as obtained from
function dmCheckOut().
.TP
.B "char *stream"
names the stream to be opened.
.TP
.B "char *mode"
specifies the stream access mode as with fopen(3S).
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmOpenStream
opens the stream named by
.B stream
and returns a \fBDM_STREAM\fP pointer.
.PP
In the current implementation streams are mapped more or less directly
to UNIX files.
The (absolute) pathname of the file is obtained from the
\fBcellkey\fP argument.
.PP
Function
.B dmOpenStream
checks from the information found in
.B cellkey
whether the
.B mode
of opening is permitted.
For example,
it is not permitted to open a stream for writing if the mode
used for dmCheckOut() was \fBREADONLY\fP.
For that case you may only use
.B mode
"r" or "r+".
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Function
.B dmOpenStream
returns the pointer \fBNULL\fP if the named
.B stream
cannot be accessed,
or the constraints mentioned above are violated.
External variable
.B dmerrno
will be set to indicate the error,
and a call to function dmError() will be done.
.PP
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 14
.B DME_BADKEY
Illegal cell access key given.
.TP
.B DME_MODE
Illegal stream access mode given.
.TP
.B DME_FOPEN
Cannot open stream with specified mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
fopen(3S),
dmCheckOut(5ICD),
dmCloseStream(5ICD).
