.TH DMOPENPROJECT 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmOpenProject - initiate a project transaction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

DM_PROJECT *dmOpenProject (char *projectname, int mode);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "char *projectname"
identifies the project to be used.
Either the path of the project directory or the value
\fBDEFAULT_PROJECT\fP (current working directory).
.TP
.B "int mode"
is the project access mode.
Valid modes as predefined in "dmincl.h" are:
.sp 0.5
\fBPROJ_READ\fP -
'in +3
the project is opened for read access.
.in -3
\fBPROJ_WRITE\fP -
'in +3
the project is opened for write access.
.in -3
\fBDEFAULT_MODE\fP -
'in +3
the project is opened for read and write access.
.in -3
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmOpenProject
initiates a project transaction.
It returns a pointer to a \fBDM_PROJECT\fP data structure,
containing information about the particular project,
identified by \fBprojectname\fP and the access rights represented by \fBmode\fP.
The \fBDM_PROJECT\fP data structure will be used as an argument
to the functions in the cell transaction layer.
.PP
If a project transaction was already in progress on this project,
the existing key will be returned immediately.
.PP
There are two pre-defined default argument values for
the function \fBdmOpenProject\fP:
\fBDEFAULT_PROJECT\fP and \fBDEFAULT_MODE\fP, which may be
used when the tool operates in a default environment.
If \fBprojectname\fP has the value \fBDEFAULT_PROJECT\fP,
.B dmOpenProject
opens the project identified by the environment
variable \fBCWD\fP, if it is set, or
takes the current working directory as the project directory.
If the specified \fBprojectname\fP is not \fBDEFAULT_PROJECT\fP
it may be a local absolute or relative path.
If \fBprojectname\fP is relative,
.B dmOpenProject
tries to make an absolute path.
.PP
After a successful call to \fBdmOpenProject\fP the
.I dmpath
member of the \fBDM_PROJECT\fP data structure contains
the absolute path of the project directory.
This member should be used by tools that want to store / retrieve
result files into / from the project directory.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If properly executed,
.B dmOpenProject
will return a pointer to a
DM_PROJECT data structure.
If
.B dmOpenProject
fails \fBNULL\fP will be returned,
.B dmerrno
will be set to indicate the error,
and a call to dmError() will be done.
.br
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 14
.B DME_NOINIT
DMI not yet initialized.
.TP
.B DME_SYS
Error in system call.
.TP
.B DME_BADPR
Bad project name.
.TP
.B DME_PRLOCK
Project is locked.
.TP
.B DME_NODMRC
Cannot open ".dmrc" file.
.TP
.B DME_FMT
Bad ".dmrc" file format.
.TP
.B DME_BADREL
Bad release number.
.SH SEE ALSO
dmCloseProject(5ICD).
