.TH DMPUTDESIGNDATA 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmPutDesignData - put data to a database stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

int dmPutDesignData (DM_STREAM *streamkey, int fmt);
int dmPutDataEscape (DM_STREAM *streamkey, int fmt);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "DM_STREAM *streamkey"
is a pointer to a valid \fBDM_STREAM\fP as obtained
from the function dmOpenStream() when the stream was opened.
It is the access key of a named stream
to which the data is written.
.TP
.B "int fmt"
is a function pointer which determines the internal format
that is to be used for write operations.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmPutDesignData
is used to shield the programmer as much as possible
from the internal representation of the data in the database
(for instance, the data may be in PACKED format).
The data written to the database is conveyed in an external structure,
one for each type, which is specified by the argument
.B fmt.
.PP
In the include file \fB"dmincl.h"\fP,
for each type the corresponding value of the argument
.B fmt
is given plus the definition and the name of the structure in which the
data is conveyed to and from the database.
There is a #define name for each internal format (for example GEO_BOXLAY and GEO_VLNLAY,
see the example below).
You are strongly advised to use these defined names for the internal formats instead
of ordinary numbers.
.PP
Function
.B dmPutDataEscape
can be defined by a tool programmer to add transparent extensions to the dmPutDesignData function.
Because function dmPutDesignData calls dmPutDataEscape for unknown formats.
Note that negative values of
.B fmt
are reserved for such user extensions.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* the error handling has been omitted */
         .
         .
key = dmCheckOut (projkey, cell, WORKING, DONTCARE, LAYOUT, ATTACH);

fp_boxlay = dmOpenStream (key, "np_bxx", "r");
fp_vlnlay = dmOpenStream (key, "np_vln", "w");

.if n .bp
while (dmGetDesignData (fp_boxlay, GEO_BOXLAY) > 0) {
    xl = gboxlay.xl;
    xr = gboxlay.xr;
        .
        .
    gvlnlay.x = xl;
    gvlnlay.occ_type = occ_type;
        .
        .
    dmPutDesignData (fp_vlnlay, GEO_VLNLAY);
}

dmCheckIn (key, COMPLETE);
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Function
.B dmPutDesignData()
returns 0,
if successful.
If
.B dmPutDesignData()
fails \fB-1\fP is returned,
external variable
.B dmerrno
will be set and a call to dmError() will been done.
.PP
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 14
.B DME_FMT
Bad dmPutDesignData format.
.TP
.B DME_PUT
Format write error.
.SH SEE ALSO
dmCheckOut(5ICD),
dmCheckIn(5ICD),
dmGetDesignData(5ICD).
.br
Documentation on the format definition for the layout,
circuit and floorplan view.
