.TH DMPUTCELLSTATUS 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmPutCellStatus - put or modify extraction status of a cell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

int dmPutCellStatus (DM_PROJECT *dmproject, DM_XDATA *xdata);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "DM_PROJECT *dmproject"
a pointer to a valid \fBDM_PROJECT\fP as obtained from dmOpenProject().
.TP
.B "DM_XDATA *xdata"
a pointer to a \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmPutCellStatus
is used to set the extraction state information of a cell.
The data written to the database is conveyed in the \fBDM_XDATA\fP
data structure. The cell has to be in the project or imported into the project.
You may create / update entries for non-existing cells.
.PP
The \fBDM_XDATA\fP structure has the following members:
.PP
.nf
.if n .ta 4 11 29
.if t .ta 1c 2c 6c
	char *	\fBname\fP	cell name
	long	\fBtimestamp\fP	last modified date
	short	\fBcelltype\fP	type of cell
	short	\fBinterfacetype\fP	type of interface
	char *	\fBmasks\fP	list of masks
.PP
.fi
Member \fBtimestamp\fP needs not to be set,
because it is set by the function itself after writing to the database.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.if n .ta 4 8 12
.if t .ta 1c 2c 3c
/* the error handling has been omitted */

int mskno (DM_PROCDATA *md, char *name)
{
	int i;
	for (i = 0; i < md->nomasks; ++i)
		if (strcmp (md->nomasks[i], name) == 0) break;
	return i;
}

write_cell (char *cell)
{
	DM_XDATA xdata;
	DM_PROCDATA *md = NULL;
	DM_PROJECT *pkey;
	int i, msks[64];
	char mbuf[255], *mptr;

	dmInit ("test");
	pkey = dmOpenProject (DEFAULT_PROJECT, DEFAULT_MODE);
	if (pkey)
		md = (DM_PROCDATA *) dmGetMetaDesignData (PROCESS, pkey);
	if (md) {
		xdata.name = cell;
		xdata.celltype = DM_CT_DEVICE;
		xdata.interfacetype = DM_CT_FREEMASKS;
		xdata.masks = mbuf;
		for (i = 0; i < 64; ++i) msks[i] = 0;
		if ((i = mskno (md, "cpg")) < 64) msks[i] = 1;
		if ((i = mskno (md, "cmf")) < 64) msks[i] = 1;
		if ((i = mskno (md, "cca")) < 64) msks[i] = 1;
		mptr = mbuf;
		for (i = 0; i < 64; ++i) if (msks[i]) {
			if (mptr != mbuf) *mptr++ = ' ';
			sprintf (mptr, "%d", i);
			mptr += strlen (mptr);
		}
		*mptr = '\\0';
		dmPutCellStatus (pkey, &xdata);
	}
	if (pkey) dmCloseProject (pkey, COMPLETE);
	dmQuit ();
}
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \fBdmPutCellStatus()\fP is successful,
\fB0\fP will be returned.
.if n .br
.if t .PP
If \fBdmPutCellStatus()\fP fails,
\fB-1\fP is returned after dmError() has been called.
.if t .br
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 16
.B DME_BADPR
Bad project.
.TP
.B DME_FOPEN
Cannot read/write xcontrol file.
.TP
.B DME_GET
Data read error.
.TP
.B DME_NOCELL
No xdata.
No cell name specified.
.TP
.B DME_NOCELLTYPE
Unknown celltype specified.
.TP
.B DME_NOINTERFACETYPE
Unknown interfacetype specified.
.TP
.B DME_NOMASK
No mask data.
Too many masks in mask data.
.br
No or unknown mask specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
dmGetCellStatus(5ICD), xcontrol(1ICD).
