.TH DMREMOVECELL 5ICD "DMI User's Manual"
.SH NAME
dmRemoveCell - remove a cell from a project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB
#include "dmincl.h"

int dmRemoveCell (DM_PROJECT *projkey, char *cell, char *versionstatus,
		  int versionnumber, char *view);
\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "DM_PROJECT *projkey"
is a pointer to a valid \fBDM_PROJECT\fP as obtained from dmOpenProject().
.TP
.B "char *cell"
is a character string naming the cell to be removed.
This cell cannot be an imported cell (or alias name).
.TP
.B "char *versionstatus"
controls the selection of a particular version of the cell.
Valid status types are \fBWORKING\fP and \fBACTUAL\fP.
.TP
.B "int versionnumber"
can be used to select an individual version by its number (not supported).
You may only use \fBDONTCARE\fP.
.TP
.B "char *view"
specifies the view type of the cell that is to be removed.
Function
.B dmRemoveCell
checks whether this is a valid view type for the project
identified by the \fBprojkey\fP.
Currently, default view types for project creation are
\fBLAYOUT\fP, \fBCIRCUIT\fP and \fBFLOORPLAN\fP (as pre-defined in "dmincl.h").
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function
.B dmRemoveCell
removes a cell from a project directory.
.PP
The removal fails if, among other reasons,
the cell appears to be a non-root cell,
the cell has been exported, or a transaction is in progress on the cell.
Write permission is required for the project identified by the \fBprojkey\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If properly executed,
.B dmRemoveCell
will return \fB0\fP.
If the function fails \fB-1\fP will be returned.
The external variable
.B dmerrno
will be set to indicate the error,
and a call to function dmError() will be done.
.br
This may happen in the following cases:
.TP 14
.B DME_BADARG
Bad versionstatus argument.
.TP
.B DME_BADKEY
Bad project key.
.TP
.B DME_BADNAME
Bad cell name.
.TP
.B DME_BADVIEW
Bad view type.
.TP
.B DME_LOCK
Cell already checked out.
.TP
.B DME_MODE
Project is not writable.
.TP
.B DME_NOCELL
Cell does not exist.
.TP
.B DME_NOROOT
Cell is not a root cell.
.TP
.B DME_NOCELLL
Celllist cannot be opened.
.TP
.B DME_FOPEN
Celllist cannot be written.
.TP
.B DME_SYS
Error in system call.
.SH SEE ALSO
dmCheckOut(5ICD),
dmOpenProject(5ICD).
